2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Two years ago, Homer Bush came off the Yankee bench with his awesome speed and he stole a few bases and won a few games. Now there is Clay Bellinger, whose strength is versatility. Joe Girardi was once the Yankees' backup catcher, and now the backups are Jim Leyritz and Turner.
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,Re ''What a Texas Record Can't Tell'' (Op-Ed, April 28): Paul Burka is trying to get across the point that Gov. George W. Bush should not and cannot be blamed for most of the social problems and deficiencies that Texas has because that conservative state has long-held restraints on what its governors can accomplish politically.My question is, if Governor Bush has accomplished little as Texas's chief executive, how is he qualified to serve as president of the United States? Basically, he is running without any track record. Perhaps if his name weren't Bush, he would just be one of the also-rans who took part in this year's Republican primaries.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,The top foreign policy adviser for Gov. George W. Bush argued today that Vice President Al Gore had misrepresented Mr. Bush's views on how to deal with Russia and China and had taken ''a series of positions that are at complete odds with how he has acted for the past seven years.''In a telephone conversation with reporters, Mr. Bush's adviser, Condoleezza Rice, offered a response to a speech by Mr. Gore that, while reported in newspapers today, had not yet been delivered. Based on the advance text of the speech, Ms. Rice said Mr. Gore had glossed over the Clinton administration's cuts in military procurement and had ignored his involvement in a largely failed effort to convert Russia to capitalism.She was particularly critical of Mr. Gore's sometimes meandering commitment to free trade.''Where was he when it was time to stand up and be counted in Seattle?'' she asked, talking about the meeting of the World Trade Organization in December that was disrupted by violent protests, and where an administration effort to start a new round of global trade talks had collapsed. Mr. Gore stayed away from the meeting, partly to avoid angering union members who were demonstrating. President Clinton attended the session for a day and a half.Mr. Gore offered his strongest endorsement yet of the China trade pact in a speech in Boston today, saying he would work to win votes for its approval, even if it meant angering his labor constituency. But Ms. Rice was not impressed. ''It's about time,'' she said. ''The vote's in three weeks.''The exchange was particularly notable because foreign policy has played only a bit role in the presidential campaign. Mr. Bush has delivered one major speech on the subject, devoted almost entirely to security issues. That left him vulnerable to Mr. Gore's assertion today that the Texas governor ''dangerously fixates on the cold war past'' but has not dealt with the major issues of economic globalization that form some of the toughest foreign policy challenges.Ms. Rice, who was a Russia specialist on the National Security Council in President George Bush's administration, said Governor Bush was planning a series of foreign policy speeches, starting with trade. But she said that the timing of those speeches had not been set.In her critique of Mr. Gore's speech, Ms. Rice said she was particularly mystified about why he raised the issue of Russia.''The vice president himself oversaw Gore-Chernomyrdin,'' she said, referring to meetings between Mr. Gore and Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, the Russian prime minister, on issues that included security and economic transformation. ''At the time it was very clear that Chernomyrdin and others who the vice president was calling 'reformers' were stealing the country blind, with the money going into Swiss bank accounts.''The essence of Mr. Gore's critique today was that Mr. Bush was aligned with right-wing Republicans and regarded both Russia and China as ''future enemies'' rather than partners and competitors. Ms. Rice argued that Mr. Gore had deliberately misstated Mr. Bush's views, incorrectly casting him as a cold warrior and an isolationist. ''The interests of the U.S. are served by engagement with Russia and China,'' she said, ''but you have to engage them in a realistic way, not a romantic one.''''I would not call either country a threat, but both are challenges,'' she said, using terminology close to Mr. Gore's. She said Mr. Gore had mischaracterized Mr. Bush's views on missile defenses, an area of dispute with Russia. She enlisted Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, a mainstream Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, to declare that Mr. Gore's speech was a compendium of foreign policy problems ''rather than a strategic vision.''She also said Mr. Gore had participated in decisions to ''cut military procurement by 13 percent'' since the beginning of the Clinton administration.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Aides to Gov. George W. Bush fought back today against accusations that his fiscal proposals are risky, saying that the growth in the economy over the past six months meant that there would be enough money to accommodate comfortably the governor's spending and tax cut proposals.Mr. Bush's advisers released a new analysis of his budget plans after days in which Vice President Al Gore has sharply criticized Mr. Bush on fiscal issues. Mr. Gore has asserted that Mr. Bush's large tax cut proposal and plan to push for a portion of Social Security payroll taxes to be put into private investment accounts would return the nation to the era of deficits.Mr. Gore went on an advertising offensive on Monday against Mr. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, through a series of interviews and television appearances, charging that Mr. Bush would continue ''multitrillion-dollar debts.'' Campaigning today, Mr. Gore called Mr. Bush's Social Security proposal ''bad for America's future and bad for America's economy.''The battle over numbers underscores how much the presidential campaign -- the first one waged in the new era of federal surpluses -- will be fought over economic policy and the related question of how to shore up Social Security. The Gore campaign considers the economic prosperity of the Clinton years one of its greatest assets.The figures released by Bush aides today addressed a weakness in earlier calculations. With the annual spending battle stepping up on Capitol Hill, the Bush campaign stopped assuming Congress would make large reductions in domestic spending, instead assuming discretionary domestic spending would grow.At the same time, Mr. Bush's advisers argued that the growth in the economy over the past six months means the federal surplus will be larger than previously forecast. They said that under their new calculations the estimated federal surplus across 10 years -- after $2.2 trillion is set aside for Social Security -- will amount to $1.8 trillion.That is roughly $1 trillion more than the Gore campaign estimates and about $500 billion more than the Bush campaign's earlier projections. Mr. Gore assumes a higher rate of spending and a less robust economy.Mr. Bush's aides said his cut would use 1.3 trillion surplus dollars, allowing $512 billion for other programs.''The bottom line is clear,'' said Lawrence B. Lindsey, the Bush campaign's chief economic adviser. ''Governor Bush's plan takes care of Social Security first, provides America's working families with a tax break and does it all within the context of a balanced budget.''The Bush campaign's new calculations were released less than 24 hours after Mr. Gore's aides held their own session with reporters and released an array of numbers they said showed that to accommodate his tax cut, Mr. Bush either had to make ''cuts in core areas of government that are unimaginable'' or risk a return to deficits.Mr. Gore's aides were still critical of Mr. Bush today.''Last month he claimed that his tax cut and spending increases were paid for,'' said Elaine Kamarck, policy adviser to Mr. Gore. ''Today, after finding more money, Bush still can't pay for his promises for a huge tax cut, increased spending and privatization of Social Security.''The Gore campaign said Mr. Bush was underestimating spending, and Mr. Bush's advisers refused to disclose how much Mr. Bush's embrace of a national missile defense system and prescription drug program would cost, while saying the proposals fit in their spending plan.The most serious dispute between the two campaigns is the true cost of Mr. Bush's tax-cut proposal. Mr. Bush's aides said the tax cut would cost $1.3 trillion over 10 years from 2001-2010. Over just five years they said it would cost $460 billion, slightly less than their original estimate of $483 billion. And they pointed to an analysis from the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation backing them. The committee is controlled by Republicans.The Gore campaign argued that it was more appropriate to examine the tax cut through 2011, since the tax cut does not go into effect until fiscal 2002. Mr. Gore's aides said that once that extra year is added in, as well as lost interest costs, the tax cut costs $2 trillion.Another looming battle is over debt reduction and Social Security. Mr. Gore has made eliminating the public debt the centerpiece of his economic agenda. He says that Mr. Bush's proposal for putting some Social Security money into individual retirement accounts will carry a huge cost because it will require using part of the federal surplus that would otherwise go toward eliminating the national debt.Mr. Bush's aides counter that by giving individual workers their own retirement accounts, which can be invested in financial markets, they decrease the government's long-term obligation to pay benefits out of tax revenues. This itself, they say, is a form of debt reduction.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin has been named chairman of the committee that will draft the Republican platform at the party's national convention this summer, an appointment that abortion rights advocates regard as a sign that George W. Bush, the presumed presidential nominee, will not ease the party's staunch anti-abortion position. Two years ago, Governor Thompson signed legislation outlawing the procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion. Kate Michelman, president of the National Abortion Rights Action League, said the selection showed that Mr. Bush, despite his advocacy of inclusiveness, ''cares about what the far right of his party wants.'' Mr. Thompson said after his appointment on Monday that he looked forward to ''serving on the committee to articulate our party's most innovative ideas, the principles that bind us together and our vision for the future.'' Irvin Molotsky (NYT)The latest USA Today/CNN/Gallup presidential preference poll gives Gov. George W. Bush a five-point lead over Vice President Al Gore, 49 percent to 44 percent. The poll also indicates that should Mr. Bush pick Senator John McCain of Arizona as his running mate, he would widen his lead. Among all voters, the poll found, 2 of 3 would not be more inclined to vote for Mr. Bush if Mr. McCain were added to the ticket. But among independents, 2 of 5 said they would be more inclined to vote for Mr. Bush with Mr. McCain on the ticket. The poll, which surveyed 1,003 likely voters from April 28 to 30, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five points. In a USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll taken three weeks earlier, Mr. Bush led Mr. Gore by nine points. B. Drummond Ayres Jr. (NYT)
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,Last week, for example, the Republican National Committee brought in $21.3 million -- the most ever raised in a single event -- at its gala in Washington saluting the party's apparent presidential nominee, Gov. George W. Bush. The Republicans received six-figure contributions -- and fund-raising assistance -- from Philip Morris, AT&T and the National Rifle Association, all three of which are among the most generous soft-money contributors to the party this year. The Democrats hope to raise a similar amount at a tribute to President Clinton later this month.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,Following are excerpts from remarks prepared for delivery yesterday by Vice President Al Gore to the International Press Institute in Boston, as provided by the Gore campaign:From what we can tell of his foreign policy, Governor Bush does not prepare us to meet the grand challenges of both the classic and new security agendas. . . .Governor Bush dangerously fixates on the cold war past when speaking of the use of force. He suggests that he would not intervene to relieve even the brutal repression of ethnic cleansing and genocide. No wonder it took him six weeks to say anything about our action against the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. Is that the right message for America to send to people around the globe struggling for freedom?Stuck in a cold war mindset, Governor Bush continues to view Russia and China primarily as present or future enemies. While we must remain vigilant against any deterioration in our relationships, the reality of the global age is that Russia and China are indeed competitors, but also vital partners in our efforts to tackle problems menacing to us all.Just this past week, Governor Bush used his brief meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Ivanov to issue a warning that his intention would be to build and deploy a global Star Wars system that he believes could defend the U.S. and all our allies against any missile launch from any source. In the 1990's, most serious analysts took a look at the implausibility of this endeavor, the fantastical price that our taxpayers would be expected to pay, and the dangerously destabilizing consequences of traveling down that path and rejected this notion. Governor Bush wishes to return to it, and chose the worst possible venue in which to launch -- for lack of a better phrase -- his risky foreign policy scheme. . . .When it comes to the challenges of the new security agenda, Governor Bush's foreign policy is noticeably blank. Although Africa represents a vast untapped market, has major health and environmental concerns that directly impact us, and the reaches of modern terrorism took American lives in two of our embassies on that continent, Governor Bush said that Africa ''doesn't fit into the national strategic interests.'' Is that a responsible assessment of our national interest?One has to assume that these gaps in Governor Bush's foreign policy views and experience will be filled by the ideologies and inveterate antipathies of his party -- the right-wing, partisan isolationism of the Republican Congressional leadership. Since 1994, the Republicans in Congress have recklessly tossed aside decades of bipartisan cooperation on foreign policy.Governor Bush joined with the isolationist, partisan Republican majority in Congress in opposing the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. He chose politics over principle. . . .
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,The remarks proved embarrassing to Gov. George W. Bush, who has been running from one photo-op to another, posing relentlessly with black and brown children and teenagers, trying to show that he and his party are not the mortal enemies of ethnic minorities.(The governor's task is not an easy one when you consider that Ronald Reagan chose to kick off his 1980 general election campaign in Philadelphia, Miss., which is where the civil rights workers Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner and James Chaney were murdered, and that the governor's own father, George Herbert Walker Bush, pumped up his win over Michael Dukakis in the 1988 presidential race with the loathsome Willie Horton ads.)Which might have been fine except for the fact that Dr. Archer, a gynecologist, has said so much crazy stuff in the past. In the early 1990's, Dr. Archer was a deputy assistant secretary at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, where he served as the Bush administration's point person on the so-called gag rule, the regulation that barred doctors at federally financed family planning clinics from discussing abortion with women.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Late last year Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, and other foes of the McCain-Feingold bill that would ban the unlimited donations to political parties known as soft money never tired of saying that this was an issue of little interest to American voters. Then the reform cause was energized by Senator John McCain's primary campaign, and by a Democratic race in which Vice President Al Gore declared that enactment of the soft-money ban would be one of his highest priorities as president.Unfortunately, Gov. George W. Bush has so far joined Mr. Lott as an obstacle to reform. He says he favors a ban on corporation and union contributions to parties, but he would leave open a wide loophole by allowing unlimited donations to parties from individuals. Like other opponents of reform, he calls it a free speech issue. But Congress set limits on individual donations to candidates in 1974 after the Watergate scandals, and the legislation before Congress would simply extend those limits to donations to parties, which have been used to undermine the old reforms.Mr. McCain is to meet with the presumptive party nominee in a few days to talk about issues. He needs to press Mr. Bush to support his campaign finance legislation in the Senate, where it commands majority support, and Mr. Bush ought to sign on to real reform. Americans want it. Most in Congress want it. Now even the donors want it. Mr. Bush and Mr. Lott should not stand in their way.
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,Microsoft says it has lobbied both likely presidential nominees, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush, to influence their views of the case and to counter lobbying by its competitors. Mr. Bush has made a few unspecific comments about the case sympathetic to Microsoft, while Mr. Gore has declined to discuss it.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Gore Anticrime ProposalVice President Al Gore called for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees. His proposal would have the government spend $500 million a year to help states test, treat and counsel prisoners and parolees for drug use. A24Bush Aides Fight BackAides to Gov. George W. Bush disputed accusations by Vice President Al Gore that Mr. Bush's fiscal proposals were risky. They said economic growth in the last six months meant that there would be enough money to easily accommodate the governor's spending and tax cut proposals. A25
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,During my years in public office, one issue I got the most mail about was my hair, with questions like, ''How do you wear your hair when you're dressed up?'' I was urged to dye my hair, and people even enclosed checks to pay for a makeover. In no audience I've ever spoken to have I found a man who sent Al Gore a check for Rogaine or asked Newt Gingrich to get a haircut. I would have hoped that we could have erased such differences by the dawn of the 21st century. But now, it seems, the only way to imagine a woman in the White House is to put Barbie there. I'm sorry, but I just can't get enthusiastic. I can see my hero, Eleanor Roosevelt, sitting in heaven, shaking her head and saying, ''They still don't get it!''
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, could play a decisive role on the plan at the convention. But his campaign had no comment tonight, saying Mr. Bush looked forward to studying the report.On the Democratic side, the national committee's satisfaction with the existing system reflected the position of the campaign of Vice President Al Gore.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,More pointedly, Moshe Gorelick, in an article in a haredi weekly titled ''Even in Israel They Deny the Holocaust,'' said the official Holocaust Day explicitly disdained those who ''kept their godly souls until the last minute'' as ''going like lambs to the slaughter.''
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Vice President Al Gore, treading carefully, broke with the Clinton administration and also suggested that the case was best left to the courts.At stake is a crucial group of Cuban-American voters, which leans Republican but helped deliver Florida to President Clinton in 1996. Some analysts say Republicans were just trying to help George W. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, win Florida.''Some would suggest that if Gore can deny Bush Florida, Gore would be hard to beat,'' said Brian Kennedy, a Republican political consultant. ''Republicans want to remind people that it was the Clinton administration that came in and pointed guns to take this boy back.''
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,Former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, one of many prominent Democrats mentioned as a potential running mate for Vice President Al Gore, seemed to reject the idea yesterday, calling it ''a curious notion.'' Discussing economic policy and what he saw as key issues in the campaign, Mr. Rubin said that while he has been around politics for many years, including a stint as a Democratic fund-raiser, he viewed running for and serving in office as a special field, ''something unto itself.'' Mr. Rubin suggested that it was unwise to choose a nominee who had not been tested by other campaigns. ''I have never run for office,'' he said. ''You don't want somebody in a presidential campaign, which is the ultimate of political experience in this country, who hasn't been tested by running before.'' Mr. Rubin spoke on Political Points, the Webcast of The New York Times and ABC News. (NYT)The consumer advocate and Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader discussed an endorsement yesterday with leaders of the United Automobile Workers in Detroit. Mr. Nader said that he did not directly ask for an endorsement and that the union would not endorse a candidate until after a Congressional vote, scheduled for late May, on establishing permanent normal trade relations with China. Mr. Nader, the auto workers and other major unions oppose the bill. Instead of asking for endorsements, Mr. Nader said: ''I just tell people what we're doing.'' Union officials were unavailable for comment. The union, which has criticized President Clinton's trade policies, broke with the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in October, when the labor federation endorsed Vice President Al Gore. (AP)
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,The title of Edmund Wilson's book on Civil War writings, ''Patriotic Gore,'' is an apt phrase for Mr. Bradley's work. As a reconstruction of one of the bloodiest battles of World War II, ''Flags of Our Fathers'' is straightforwardly patriotic. There is no historical revisionism here; in Mr. Bradley's vision, the Americans are the good guys, and the Japanese enemy, while brave, is ruthless and unspeakably cruel.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Mr. Stewart declined through a spokeswoman to comment on the charges yesterday. The spokeswoman, Kelly Bush, said that Mr. Stewart had not yet been notified of the action.Mr. Stewart said that before he made the speech, he alerted Mr. Miller; the play's director, David Esbjornson; Ms. Bush; and the rest of the cast. The actors declined through a secret ballot to join Mr. Stewart onstage.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,With a fullblown attack today on Gov. George W. Bush over foreign policy, Vice President Al Gore seemed to be executing a classic incumbent strategy, one made especially classic by Governor Bush's father, then the vice president, against another sitting governor in 1988.The Gore campaign has been sifting through the detritus of the elder Mr. Bush's steamrolling of Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts and has unearthed useful lessons. Those lessons, for an incumbent vice president defending a relatively popular administration against a sitting governor, are becoming increasingly evident. The basic thrust: try to hamstring the opponent by raising questions about his record and his readiness to be president.Neither the Gore campaign nor the Bush campaign particularly likes the analogy. The Gore team says it is having a high-minded policy debate and is not employing negative personal attacks. The Bush campaign says Mr. Gore, unlike Vice President George Bush in 1988, is misrepresenting the governor's record.Their routes may be different, but the Gore campaign arrives at the same place Governor Bush's father arrived a dozen years ago. They both present a sitting vice president as the responsible steward of the current peace and prosperity. And they both cast the challenger as risky and irresponsible and his state as an alien universe that is culturally out of the mainstream. Already, Texas has been portrayed as such an aberration that it almost resembles, well, Massachusetts in 1988.Governor Bush began this campaign much the way Governor Dukakis began his, as the respected if little-known executive of a state that had appeared to make strides economically and socially.Part of this was Mr. Dukakis's fault. He did not think Vice President Bush's attacks were worth answering. And he slapped on a helmet and climbed into a battle tank, providing perhaps the most enduring, if hapless, image of his campaign.This time around, Mr. Gore's chief criticism of Mr. Bush was initially confined to the governor's ''risky tax scheme.'' But he has ratcheted up that criticism every day. Now the word ''risky,'' supplemented by ''irresponsible'' and ''reckless,'' is applied to the entire Bush world view. The risky tax scheme begets a risky economic plan, which encompasses risky health and education plans and so on.So in a major foreign policy speech in Boston today, Mr. Gore criticized Mr. Bush for talking about a costly and controversial Star Wars missile defense plan in his meeting with the foreign minister of Russia and said the Texan ''chose the worst possible venue in which to launch -- for lack of a better phrase -- his risky foreign policy scheme.''On the domestic policy front, Mr. Gore has portrayed Mr. Bush's Texas as a backwater with substandard education and inadequate health insurance and its residents as so gun-happy that the governor signed a bill allowing them to take weapons into churches. Further, Mr. Gore likes to link Governor Bush with the ''failed'' policies of his father and refers often to ''the Bush-Quayle recession.''Today Mr. Gore said Mr. Bush was ''stuck in a cold war mindset'' and that he would have to fill in the ''gaps'' in his knowledge of foreign policy with the right-wing isolationist ideology of Congressional Republicans like Senator Jesse Helms.But if Mr. Gore has learned from the 1988 campaign, so has Governor Bush. Instead of allowing Mr. Gore to define him the way Vice President Bush defined Governor Dukakis, Governor Bush has tried to the avoid the extremist conservative box Mr. Gore has tried to put him in.Governor Bush has spent much time reaching for the political center, especially on issues like education and health care, which have traditionally been viewed as more favorable to Democrats. And he has emphasized bipartisanship and his ability to work with Democrats.Governor Bush has also been quicker to respond to attacks than was Governor Dukakis. Unlike Mr. Dukakis, Governor Bush is not only resisting Mr. Gore's caricature of him but is constructing his own caricature of Mr. Gore, as the candidate who does not tell the truth and is bent on a campaign of destruction. The constant refrain from the Bush campaign is that Mr. Gore ''will say anything to get elected.''Mr. Gore has pushed away any suggestion that he is being negative, saying he believes the country wants a healthy debate on the issues people care about. He has already signaled what some of those issues will be and how he intends to use them, as in recent days, when he excoriated Mr. Bush's record on the environment by calling Texas the most polluted state in the country, citing Houston's chronic air pollution as an example.And while some in the Gore campaign have been studying the 1988 campaign -- its similarities include an incumbent vice president who began the campaign in double digits behind a governor -- his spokesman rejects the idea that the 1988 Bush campaign is any kind of model.''We're putting out our positive vision,'' said Chris Lehane, a spokesman for Mr. Gore. ''The difference is that in 1988, Bush's goal was to pull down Dukakis.''It was in this long tradition that Vice President Gore's first television commercial, once he secured the nomination, said to viewers: ''Al Gore is ready. Is George W.?''
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,Mr. Lott is reportedly offering a half-dozen federal judges for approval by the Senate in return for Democratic cooperation on Mr. Smith. Mr. Lott regards the offer as magnanimous. It is in fact insulting. For several years, he and other Republicans have thrown up one road block after another to President Clinton's judicial appointments -- a partisan debasing of the honored principle under which the Senate advises and consents on presidential nominations. This year he has allowed confirmation of only seven judges. When the tables were turned in 1992, also a hotly contested election year, a Democratic-controlled Senate was serious enough about its responsibilities to approve 66 judges nominated by President George Bush, a Republican.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,As magazines sometimes do, George set a different cover on the issue sent to subscribers. The cover article -- ''Will the Biggest Liar Win?'' -- argues that Al Gore and George W. Bush have distorted the truth and is not likely to land the magazine on ''60 Minutes.''
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,I am offended that Elizabeth Birch of the Human Rights Campaign, a leading gay group, saw fit to speak on behalf of the movement when she said ''we must elect Al Gore as president of the United States'' (news article, May 1).It may shock Ms. Birch, but lots of gays oppose Mr. Gore and resent being taken for granted by the Democratic Party. Like the millions of ordinary Americans of all backgrounds, we middle-of-the-road gays are still outraged by the scandals and immorality of the present administration, and we yearn for a return to decency, honesty and virtue in the White House.If that means voting for George W. Bush, so be it. We are savvy enough to balance our commitment to equal rights for gays with our commitment to the country's values and integrity.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,Gov. George W. Bush plans to push soon for a fundamental overhaul of Social Security, reopening an issue that could be among the most combustible and bitterly debated of the presidential campaign.In the next month, his aides said, Mr. Bush intends to begin pressing his case for the establishment of individual investment accounts within Social Security, a change that would be the most far-reaching to the program since it was established during the Depression.Mr. Bush believes that the accounts, which would allow workers to invest a portion of their Social Security payroll taxes in the stock and bond markets, are an essential component of any plan to ensure the retirement system's long-term viability, his advisers said.Private accounts would allow workers to capture some of the historically high returns offered by Wall Street over the long run, thereby reducing the need to close a looming shortfall in Social Security's finances through benefit cuts or higher taxes, Mr. Bush's aides said.''People have an understanding of how markets work, and are used to securing a higher return on their savings,'' said one adviser to Mr. Bush. ''The debate on Social Security will be joined in a way that we believe will be open to new ideas.''Yet to most Democrats, including Vice President Al Gore, creating individual investment accounts is tantamount to abandoning Social Security's role as the provider of a guaranteed benefit for the elderly.Mr. Gore's aides said they would portray Mr. Bush's approach as too risky for many individuals because it would leave their retirement security exposed to the ups and downs of the stock market. They expect that argument to have particular resonance if Wall Street remains as volatile as it has been in recent months.Mr. Gore's team also intends to make a case that establishing personal accounts would have a huge economic cost because it would require using the portion of the projected federal budget surplus that would otherwise go to reducing and eventually eliminating the $3.5 trillion in national debt held by the public.Mr. Gore has made eliminating the public debt the centerpiece of his economic agenda, saying that to do so would push interest rates down and give the entire economy a boost. The vice president backs a plan that would leave Social Security intact but would extend its solvency to 2050 by allocating interest savings from the reduction in the national debt to the retirement system.''One of the reasons Social Security has been so successful is that it's a social compact between generations, one generation taking care of the next generation,'' said Chris Lehane, Mr. Gore's spokesman. ''To play around with privatizing it, when in fact there's no need to privatize it, will only lead to bad results.''Mr. Bush plans to give a major speech on Social Security sometime in May, and to press the issue from then on, his aides said. He will not offer a detailed plan, but rather will commit himself to a set of principles that he would use as the basis for bipartisan negotiations if he was elected president.Those principles start with the establishment of private accounts. Mr. Bush will probably not specify what portion of a worker's payroll taxes could go into the accounts, but he is leaning toward making participation in the accounts voluntary, his advisers said. Under this approach, a portion of the retirement benefit would be guaranteed and a portion would fluctuate with the performance of the investment account.As the system stands now, payroll taxes on today's workers go to pay benefits for current retirees. Mr. Bush's plan would start shifting Social Security toward a system in which each worker saved something for his or her own retirement.''The key is going to be augmenting the current pay-as-you-go system with a prefunded system based on personal accounts,'' said Lawrence B. Lindsey, the Bush campaign's chief economic adviser.Mr. Bush will also pledge not to increase payroll taxes, and not to reduce benefits for anyone in or nearing retirement. He has left open whether the retirement age, which is already rising gradually to 67 from 65, might eventually need to be increased again.Most of the privatization proposals put on the table in the last few years envision about two percentage points of the 12.4 percent payroll tax paid by each worker being channeled into individual accounts. Privately, Mr. Bush's aides say they envision a plan of roughly the same scale.Under Mr. Gore's plan, all of the Social Security surplus would go to reducing the national debt held by the public. Mr. Bush's approach would almost certainly have to forgo large-scale reduction in the public debt. But because Mr. Bush's plan would give workers their own retirement accounts, it would decrease the government's long-term obligation to pay benefits out of tax revenues, which is another form of debt reduction.Those states, and other crucial battlegrounds like Florida, have high proportions of older voters, who in the past could have been counted on to react strongly against any major changes to Social Security. Democrats remain confident that Mr. Bush's proposal will help drive older voters to Mr. Gore, but Republican strategists said that assumption might prove outdated.''The question that this election cycle will test,'' said one adviser to Mr. Bush, ''is whether times have changed enough through the emergence of a new investor class, and through the recognition that Social Security is going broke, that new solutions can be found.''The adviser said that neither party could be sure of the answer. Still, the issue is likely to help Democrats mobilize their traditional constituencies. In particular, Democrats said any push by Mr. Bush to privatize Social Security would be met by stiff resistance from labor unions.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,Bush to Press Case For Social Security ChangeGov. George W. Bush intends to begin pressing his case for the establishment of individual investment accounts within Social Security, a change that would be the most far-reaching to the program since it was established in the Depression. A1Gore Attacks BushVice President Al Gore, in a major foreign policy speech in Boston, attacked Gov. George W. Bush in a classic incumbent strategy, one made especially classic by Governor Bush's father, then the vice president, against another sitting governor in 1988. A18Bush Camp Fires BackThe top foreign policy adviser of Gov. George W. Bush, in response to the Gore speech, said that Vice President Al Gore had misrepresented Mr. Bush's views on how to deal with Russia and China and had taken ''a series of positions that are at complete odds with how he has acted for the past seven years.'' A18
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,He staged a midcareer resurgence in the 50's by putting a mute in his horn and familiar pop melodies in his hands. In 1952 Mr. Jones received an offer from the pianist Joe Bushkin to fill in at the Embers, one of New York's 52nd Street jazz clubs. Mr. Jones agreed to put a mute in his horn; this quieter sound was what his predecessor in the band, Buck Clayton, had adopted, and it was what the restaurant preferred. Mr. Jones, whose resume included stints with the society band leaders Lester Lanin and Meyer Davis, wasn't particularly fazed. Despite the fact that his regular style was open, forceful and swinging in the Louis Armstrong vein, he knew how to play softly too.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,It was not the spectacular golf course on a cove overlooking the Pacific Ocean that led Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania to fly here the other day to address a group of Republicans (though he did squeeze in a round before his speech). It was the chance to do something a politician rarely does: praise another politician more than himself. The object of his affection was Gov. George W. Bush.Bill Richardson, the secretary of energy, cut short a visit to India for meetings on nuclear proliferation last October so he could be in New Hampshire to toss questions at Vice President Al Gore in preparation for his first debate with Bill Bradley. After only 28 hours in India, Mr. Richardson rushed to London and then flew to Boston, where a waiting Gore aide frantically drove him to Hanover, N.H., just in time to catch the vice president in the parking lot.They are also seeking to score points with Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore by stumping for them around the country, dispensing unsolicited political and policy tips and seizing every opportunity to say flattering things about their party's standard bearer. Mindful that they not appear unseemly, the one thing they dare not do is utter two words directly to the candidate: running mate.The Gore and Bush camps have only begun their painstaking hunts to find just the right running mate, and to resolve perhaps the one lingering mystery in the presidential sweepstakes before the national conventions in late summer.In recent days, Tony Coelho, Mr. Gore's campaign chairman, has been making the rounds, informing some politicians -- even some that others on the campaign said they did not consider hot prospects -- that they were in contention.Warren Christopher, the former secretary of state, is running the vice presidential screening process for Mr. Gore. The vice president turned to him because Mr. Christopher had the same job in 1992, when he helped Bill Clinton settle on Senator Gore.Mr. Bush has picked Dick Cheney, a former defense secretary and White House chief of staff who served under his father, to conduct his search.Since the Republican convention is first, Mr. Gore's choice may be in direct reaction to Mr. Bush's. For example, Gore advisers said that if Mr. Bush picks a woman, they might feel pressure to do the same.But Mr. Coelho said that because he and Mr. Gore know most of the contenders pretty well, one of Mr. Christopher's most important duties is to oversee background checks.Many Democrats say that Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts has been one of the most obvious practitioners of the subtle-but-aggressive approach. He traveled to early primary states to campaign for Mr. Gore and, the Gore campaign has noticed, has delivered speeches on national policy that helped raise his profile.On the Republican side, advisers to Elizabeth Dole made no secret of her desire to help Mr. Bush -- and get her name out. After ending her own bid for the Republican nomination, she frequently stumped for Mr. Bush in early primary states. And she has the added benefit that her husband, Bob Dole, trumpets her availability while she plays coy.Mr. Ridge is an obvious contender because he comes from a battleground state, has a compelling biography as a Vietnam veteran and is versed in national issues from his days in Congress. Most of all, he gets along well with Mr. Bush. To many Republicans, his biggest drawback is that he favors abortion rights, but that position could help Mr. Bush appeal to independents and other swing voters.In his appearance here before the Lincoln Club of Northern California, a group of moderate Republicans, Mr. Ridge, brimming with praise for Mr. Bush, spoke of the governor's ''candor, his mischievous humor, his directness, his decision-making ability.''Mr. Ridge said the governor's ''compassionate conservative message makes a lot of sense.'' He defended Mr. Bush's controversial proposal to cut taxes by nearly half a trillion dollars, saying, ''I don't think Governor Bush should abandon his plan to cut taxes.''After the event, Mr. Ridge insisted in an interview that he had been careful not to campaign to be picked as Mr. Bush's running mate. ''I don't think it's his style,'' Mr. Ridge said of Mr. Bush. ''I don't think it's appropriate. It's certainly not my style.''
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,HAMADA-Dorothy, nee Fleishman, of West Caldwell, N.J. on Monday, May 1st, age 91. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Hamada. Devoted mother of Roslyn Gore of Clifton, N.J and Edwin Hamada. Dear Sister of the late Rose Wenig and Bernard Fleishman. Loving grandmother of Ada (Kathy) Jill, Audrey, Jacobs (Sean), Wendy Gordon (Bradley), Matthew and Nikelle. Services at Jewish Memorial Chapel, 841 Allwood Rd., Clifton, N.J. today at 9:00am
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,McCain-Gore MeetingSenator John McCain and Vice President Al Gore met for 20 minutes on Sunday. Mr. Gore said they discussed changing campaign financing, Mr. McCain's signature issue and one that Mr. Gore is also advancing. Mr. McCain is to meet with Gov. George W. Bush next week. A24
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,In a speech pungent with tough talk about criminals, drug abusers and his Republican rival for president, Vice President Al Gore called today for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees.Choosing a Southern state as the backdrop for one of his most conservative speeches of the presidential campaign, Mr. Gore proposed federal spending of $500 million a year to help states test, treat and counsel prisoners and parolees for drug use.''When inmates are sent back to the streets unrehabilitated, unrepentant and unskilled, then they are just going to commit more crime and go right back into prison,'' Mr. Gore said to a crowd filled with uniformed police officers.As in all his recent policy speeches, the vice president used a harsh tone to attack Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the apparent Republican presidential nominee, this time maintaining that he had cut state financing of drug treatment by half.As a result of such policies, Mr. Gore said, Texas under Mr. Bush has experienced a 25 percent increase in the number of former inmates returned to prison for new crimes within three years of release.Mr. Gore did not suggest that Mr. Bush had been soft on crime, a position that would be hard to defend: in Mr. Bush's five and a half years as governor, Texas has undertaken the nation's largest prison-building program, executed a record number of criminals, lengthened sentences for many crimes and incarcerated a rising number of juveniles.But the vice president did say: ''I believe that we should demand that criminals get clean before they get out of jail. Governor Bush seems content to keep pushing them out of the same revolving door.''Aides to Mr. Bush disputed Mr. Gore's statistic on Texas recidivism and his accusation that the governor had cut financing of drug treatment. They also said violent crime in the state had fallen 20 percent, to a 20-year low, during the Bush administration. And they asserted that the availability of drug treatment in federal prisons had declined during the Clinton-Gore administration, even as drug use among adolescents had risen (an assertion disputed in turn by the Gore campaign).''If Al Gore is willing to attack Texas, where violent crime is at a 20-year low and the largest prison drug-treatment program in the country is located, we're also expecting attacks on Texans for defending the Alamo,'' said Dan Bartlett, a Bush aide.Just as Mr. Bush has tried to move further to the center of the political spectrum with education and health care proposals, Mr. Gore's crime speech today provided him an opportunity to reach out to centrist Republicans and conservative Democrats. And he seized it with gusto.''We can't go back to the finger-pointing and failed strategies that led to that steep increase in crime in the Bush-Quayle administration,'' he said. ''And we can't go back to the old Democratic approach, which was tough on the causes of crime but not tough enough on crime itself, again when people in both political parties wanted us to do more.''Mr. Gore's effort to outflank Governor Bush on crime recalls Bill Clinton's drive in the 1992 campaign to neutralize what had been a potent Republican issue by advocating tough anticrime measures, including the death penalty.The vice president's speech today, typifying the administration's approach to policy making, offered a mixture of ideas -- some new, some old, many small-bore. Several of the ideas were first discussed by Mr. Gore in a crime speech last July in Boston, where he called for longer sentences for all crimes committed with guns and for requiring photo-bearing licenses for people who buy new handguns.Today Mr. Gore restated his support for a proposal that federal money help local governments hire 50,000 new police officers in the coming decade. The Clinton administration has already helped finance the hiring of 60,000 new police officers, with 40,000 more in the pipeline.Mr. Gore also proposed aid to help state and local governments buy computers for crime-fighting purposes, hire new prosecutors and expand after-school programs.Mr. Gore also jumped into what has become a contentious debate in Congress by endorsing a constitutional amendment to expand the rights of crime victims. The amendment would grant victims and their families the right to reasonable notice of court proceedings involving their cases, the right to have a voice in those proceedings, and the right to notice of an offender's release or escape from prison.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Although Mr. Flake endorsed Al Gore for the Democratic presidential nomination in February, he has criticized the vice president's education policy, which opposes vouchers. Last October, Mr. Flake gave a warm introduction to George W. Bush, whom he referred to as ''my homeboy,'' at a meeting of the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative advocacy group, at which Governor Bush outlined his education proposals.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,There was a strong political subtext to the day. Elizabeth Birch, executive director of the Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest gay and lesbian organization, told the audience, ''We must elect Al Gore as president of the United States,'' arguing that ''the very future of the U.S. Supreme Court for the next generation hangs in the balance.''Ms. Birch said of Gov. George W. Bush's position on gay rights issues: ''There is absolutely nothing about these policies that is compassionate.''Vice President Gore, addressing the group by videotape beamed on a huge screen above the Mall, declared, ''I stand with you, and am with you every step of the way'' in the march for civil rights.Mr. Gore said he would not rest in the fight against AIDS and in the struggle to protect gay Americans from employment discrimination and to ensure that ''crimes of hate against all people, including gays and lesbians,'' are severely punished.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,Here's evidence that we're getting traction: President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore have detected the growing political appeal of personal privacy in a time of data rape. To a commencement audience yesterday, Clinton unveiled his plan to repel the invaders, challenging the Republican Congress to get on with legislation to stem the tide of snooping.Up to now, the Clinton-Gore record has been troubling to civil libertarians; under the rubric of searching for ''deadbeat dads,'' this administration now forces private employers to inform on workers to federal bureaucrats as never before. But Clinton's belated concern about penetrations of our privacy by marketers and e-snoops, often in support of legislation already in work, is welcome.What about sharing financial data having nothing to do with medical records? Here the Clinton-Gore plan caves in to the secret salesmen. ''We will preserve financial firms' ability to share the information that they need,'' goes the administration proposal, ''to develop new products and manage their risks . . .'' No bank is required to obtain depositor's consent; it's up to the individual to ''opt out'' -- to take the difficult initiative of demanding that the bank not make his life an open book.
2000-05-01T05:00:00+0000,Forget Hillary and Rudy. Never mind George W. and Al Gore. For political insiders from here to Albany, the race to watch right now is a special election for a seat on the Nassau County Legislature.
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,Maybe the only thing to do is go national. Next time Al Gore or George Bush comes to your town, ask him what he'd do to crack down on hog lagoons. One of them might have an answer, and at least it might liven things up.
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,Gov. George W. Bush can only hope that his meeting next week with Senator John McCain goes as well as Mr. McCain's meeting with Vice President Al Gore.Mr. McCain met on Sunday for about 20 minutes with Mr. Gore at the Naval Observatory in Washington, the vice president's official residence. Both were appearing on CNN's ''Late Edition,'' which was being filmed at the residence. When Mr. Gore learned on Saturday that Mr. McCain would be under his own roof on Sunday, he called the Arizona senator and invited him to come over early for a private chat.''We're friends,'' Mr. Gore told reporters later, noting that the two had served in the House and Senate together. ''It's not that complicated.''He said he understood that Mr. McCain, who has suspended his own presidential campaign, would be endorsing Mr. Bush, a fellow Republican, for president. But ever since Mr. Gore locked up the Democratic nomination, he has been invoking Mr. McCain's name and making an overt play for his independent-minded supporters.On Sunday night, Mr. Gore seemed eager to fill reporters in on the details of their get-together, uncharacteristically allowing camera crews to film him on his airplane discussing the matter as he flew from Boston to Washington.Mr. Gore said the two discussed campaign finance reform, Mr. McCain's signature issue and one that Mr. Gore is advancing in his campaign.Mr. Gore has said the McCain-Feingold proposal to eliminate so-called soft money from campaigns would be his No. 1 domestic initiative, a move some critics suspect is an effort to inoculate himself against criticism that his own fund-raising has been too aggressive. The Sunday session thus struck some as an effort by Mr. Gore to bask in Mr. McCain's credibility on the issue, or what the political columnist Mark Shields calls ''innocence by association.''The vice president also wanted to signal that he could work with Republicans, a theme that Mr. Bush has emphasized recently while suggesting that Mr. Gore was excessively partisan.''I will regularly and routinely reach across party lines,'' Mr. Gore said on Sunday night, adding that his ''natural instincts'' were to work in a bipartisan manner.Mr. Gore went even further in this direction by suggesting, in answer to a question, that he might even name a Republican as his vice president. ''I think that's unlikely,'' he said, but ''I would not rule it out.''While the cameras were still rolling, Mr. Gore also poked fun at his own comments about the Elian Gonzalez case, which has caused him much political heartache.But the biggest laugh came when Mr. Gore referred to a ''bit part'' that he had played in a well-received video that President Clinton had made to show at the annual White House correspondents' dinner on Saturday night.A reporter on the plane remembered that Mr. Gore had made a brief appearance in the video but said, ''I've forgotten what it was,'' inadvertently summarizing Mr. Gore's longtime difficulty in establishing himself outside Mr. Clinton's shadow.
2000-05-02T05:00:00+0000,Administration officials used the news to strengthen their claim to being a force for fiscal prudence and the guardian of economic expansion. They sought to contrast their focus on debt reduction to calls from Republicans, who have a majority in Congress, and from Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, for big tax cuts.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Bill East was greatly underestimated by the old guard, George Bush and Bob Dole. He upended them and became, heaven help us, the poster boy for his generation, dominating the 90's. His rise was relentless, leaving a trail of enemies behind, using any means at his disposal to rule.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Hillary Rodham Clinton finished her tour through each of the state's 62 counties today with a sharp attack on George W. Bush's tax cut proposals, leaving her mostly Republican audience in silence.In outlining her opposition to Mr. Bush's call for a $1.3 trillion tax cut over 10 years, Mrs. Clinton said his plan would hurt efforts to win more federal money for New York because such broad-based tax reductions would deplete the surplus.''I cannot support Governor Bush's large across-the-board tax cut,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''I do not think that's right for New York or our country. The last thing we need right now before we can eliminate some of that deficit with Washington is a large across-the-board tax cut.''Mrs. Clinton's audience enthusiastically applauded her speech until she suggested tax cuts smaller than those favored by Mr. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential candidate. Many in the audience stopped practically in midclap, in apparent disagreement.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Two years ago, Homer Bush came off the Yankee bench with his awesome speed and he stole a few bases and won a few games. Now there is Clay Bellinger, whose strength is versatility. Joe Girardi was once the Yankees' backup catcher, and now the backups are Jim Leyritz and Turner.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Al Gore delivered a provocative foreign policy speech Sunday that raised an important question: Does George W. Bush have the experience, the gravitas and, by implication, the brains to run U.S. foreign policy?If not, said Mr. Gore, one can only assume that ''the gaps in Governor Bush's foreign policy views and experience will be filled by the ideologies and inveterate antipathies of his party -- the right-wing, partisan isolationism of the Republican Congressional leadership.''Now this is a legitimate question. Mr. Bush has no experience in foreign policy, the well-displayed gaps in his knowledge suggest he may not have even read the newspaper much, and this could make him easy prey for the foreign policy ideologues in his party.But in raising this question Mr. Gore, inadvertently, raises a question about himself -- a question that many people who respect him have been asking. If you talk to Al Gore about geopolitics, the Internet or the global economy, you leave feeling he really does get it. But what good are brains if you don't always act on them? Mr. Bush may not have the brains to always do the right thing, but does Mr. Gore have the spine?Most of Mr. Gore's speech was a serious appeal for an activist, internationalist U.S. foreign policy -- something that, in fairness, Mr. Bush would also pursue. So what was legitimate in Mr. Gore's critique of Mr. Bush? It's the charge that the internationalism Mr. Bush offers often sounds like a we-will-do-whatever-we-want-because-we're-the-only-superpower-and-I-am-not-a-wimp-like-Clinton set of policies, which, if adopted at once, could be destabilizing and would have virtually no allied support. The best thing you can say is that Mr. Bush doesn't really mean some of this stuff. But what if he does?If it were his father, the former president, you know that he would do the prudent thing. But we don't know that with George W., and when you look at his own party's willingness to be led around by the fringe views of Jesse Helms, well, Mr. Gore is right to ask: Is George W. his father's son or his advisers' captive?But as for Mr. Gore, in his speech he called for a foreign policy of ''forward engagement'' -- addressing problems early before they become a crisis and doing so ''as close to the source of the problem as possible.'' Well, I can think of no problem more in need of such forward engagement than the U.S. embargo of Fidel Castro's Cuba, which has failed for 40 years to oust the Cuban dictator and, if continued, is only going to ensure that when Castro dies the Cuban economy collapses, civil war breaks out and thousands of Cubans sail for Miami. Fixing that policy means engaging the hard-line Miami Cubans, who want no change in policy, but as Mr. Gore showed in the Elian case, that sort of tough love is not his thing.Elian was not a one-day story. It was one of those moments when you get to see everyone's character: Attorney General Janet Reno stood her ground. Mr. Bush said what his advisers told him to say. And Mr. Gore tried to both exploit the Elian saga for political advantage and hide from it.In his speech, Mr. Gore decried ''protectionism and isolationism,'' but when union-led demonstrators were disrupting the World Trade Organization meetings in Seattle in the name of more protectionism, Mr. Gore was silent. What good is it to be for things in principle if you won't take them on in practice? I know Mr. Gore has cast tough votes before. I know he has to get elected. But the growing trend in the Clinton years was that the campaign never ends. This administration has not given a Sister Souljah speech to anyone in a long, long time.That's why the best you can say today about Governor Bush on foreign policy is that he doesn't really mean it, and won't do the wrong thing. He'll wise up. And the best you can say about Al Gore is that he really does mean it and will do the right thing. He'll stand up. But both still have something to prove.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,Gov. George W. Bush's plan to allow people to put their Social Security in the stock market (front page, May 1) is ill advised. I don't consider Social Security to be my main retirement income, but a fallback, in case the stock market doesn't do well.Mr. Bush seems to want to change my portfolio mix arbitrarily without my consent. He would be better advised to see to it that the current system stays in place. I want some of my retirement to be ''risk free.''
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Aides to Gov. George W. Bush fought back today against accusations that his fiscal proposals are risky, saying that the growth in the economy over the past six months meant that there would be enough money to accommodate comfortably the governor's spending and tax cut proposals.Mr. Bush's advisers released a new analysis of his budget plans after days in which Vice President Al Gore has sharply criticized Mr. Bush on fiscal issues. Mr. Gore has asserted that Mr. Bush's large tax cut proposal and plan to push for a portion of Social Security payroll taxes to be put into private investment accounts would return the nation to the era of deficits.Mr. Gore went on an advertising offensive on Monday against Mr. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, through a series of interviews and television appearances, charging that Mr. Bush would continue ''multitrillion-dollar debts.'' Campaigning today, Mr. Gore called Mr. Bush's Social Security proposal ''bad for America's future and bad for America's economy.''The battle over numbers underscores how much the presidential campaign -- the first one waged in the new era of federal surpluses -- will be fought over economic policy and the related question of how to shore up Social Security. The Gore campaign considers the economic prosperity of the Clinton years one of its greatest assets.The figures released by Bush aides today addressed a weakness in earlier calculations. With the annual spending battle stepping up on Capitol Hill, the Bush campaign stopped assuming Congress would make large reductions in domestic spending, instead assuming discretionary domestic spending would grow.At the same time, Mr. Bush's advisers argued that the growth in the economy over the past six months means the federal surplus will be larger than previously forecast. They said that under their new calculations the estimated federal surplus across 10 years -- after $2.2 trillion is set aside for Social Security -- will amount to $1.8 trillion.That is roughly $1 trillion more than the Gore campaign estimates and about $500 billion more than the Bush campaign's earlier projections. Mr. Gore assumes a higher rate of spending and a less robust economy.Mr. Bush's aides said his cut would use 1.3 trillion surplus dollars, allowing $512 billion for other programs.''The bottom line is clear,'' said Lawrence B. Lindsey, the Bush campaign's chief economic adviser. ''Governor Bush's plan takes care of Social Security first, provides America's working families with a tax break and does it all within the context of a balanced budget.''The Bush campaign's new calculations were released less than 24 hours after Mr. Gore's aides held their own session with reporters and released an array of numbers they said showed that to accommodate his tax cut, Mr. Bush either had to make ''cuts in core areas of government that are unimaginable'' or risk a return to deficits.Mr. Gore's aides were still critical of Mr. Bush today.''Last month he claimed that his tax cut and spending increases were paid for,'' said Elaine Kamarck, policy adviser to Mr. Gore. ''Today, after finding more money, Bush still can't pay for his promises for a huge tax cut, increased spending and privatization of Social Security.''The Gore campaign said Mr. Bush was underestimating spending, and Mr. Bush's advisers refused to disclose how much Mr. Bush's embrace of a national missile defense system and prescription drug program would cost, while saying the proposals fit in their spending plan.The most serious dispute between the two campaigns is the true cost of Mr. Bush's tax-cut proposal. Mr. Bush's aides said the tax cut would cost $1.3 trillion over 10 years from 2001-2010. Over just five years they said it would cost $460 billion, slightly less than their original estimate of $483 billion. And they pointed to an analysis from the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation backing them. The committee is controlled by Republicans.The Gore campaign argued that it was more appropriate to examine the tax cut through 2011, since the tax cut does not go into effect until fiscal 2002. Mr. Gore's aides said that once that extra year is added in, as well as lost interest costs, the tax cut costs $2 trillion.Another looming battle is over debt reduction and Social Security. Mr. Gore has made eliminating the public debt the centerpiece of his economic agenda. He says that Mr. Bush's proposal for putting some Social Security money into individual retirement accounts will carry a huge cost because it will require using part of the federal surplus that would otherwise go toward eliminating the national debt.Mr. Bush's aides counter that by giving individual workers their own retirement accounts, which can be invested in financial markets, they decrease the government's long-term obligation to pay benefits out of tax revenues. This itself, they say, is a form of debt reduction.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Monday was Decision Day for many high school seniors choosing colleges, but it came and went without so much as a peep from the Bush campaign about the destinations of Gov. George W. Bush's twin 18-year-old daughters, Barbara and Jenna.How far from home would they be straying? The Texas governor's aides were silent. What factors had the girls' final selection hinged on? Mum was the word. Aides acknowledged that the information would probably trickle out soon enough, through an unguarded utterance by Mr. Bush or an offhand comment by an official at one of the schools. But for just a bit longer, the family wanted to try to preserve the girls' privacy.The Bush family has been remarkably successful at that, so much so that while Mr. Bush could become the next president and while his extended family is beginning to look an awful lot like a political dynasty, his two daughters are almost invisible, their faces unknown to 99.9 percent of voters outside Texas and their public sightings only slightly more frequent than Bigfoot's.''From the time he was elected governor, we've had a policy that the girls are not interviewed and not photographed,'' said Karen P. Hughes, the communications director for the Bush campaign and a senior adviser to Mr. Bush since 1994.Far from being out of the ordinary, the daughters' anonymity immediately recalls that of Chelsea Clinton during her father's first presidential campaign, in 1992, and is shared to a degree by the three younger Gore children. (The oldest, Karenna Gore Schiff, 26, has a public role as an adviser to her father's presidential campaign.)Mr. Bush has similarly benefited from news organizations' voluntary restraint. Austin is not so big a place, and there are reporters whose children -- or whose friends' children -- attend the same public high school from which Barbara and Jenna Bush will be graduating this month. But the fruits of that familiarity have not found their way onto television or into newspapers.Similarly, Mr. Bush trusts reporters on his campaign plane to be cognizant of, and to respect, his wishes that his daughters remain journalistically off-limits, and he thus talks somewhat freely about them on occasion and even mentioned, several times, the kinds of colleges each daughter was considering.The personal-biography section of Mr. Bush's Web site digresses to mention, ''Governor and Mrs. Bush have worked hard to protect their daughters' privacy. They attend public school in Austin but do not give interviews and only appear at public events if they want to.''In public, Mr. Bush walks a carefully but not always consistently drawn line. He sporadically delights audiences with a fleeting, vague riff on the agonies and ecstasies of fatherhood and repeatedly mentions that Barbara and Jenna go to a public high school. But he generally furnishes no more specifics about them than about the family's six-toed cat, Ernie.There are exceptions to this reticence, the most conspicuous one being a chapter of his autobiography, ''A Charge to Keep'' (William Morrow & Company, 1999), in which Mr. Bush discusses his support for the death penalty. He divulges that one daughter -- he does not say which -- told him over the dinner table that she disagrees with him.Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, have said repeatedly that they want Barbara and Jenna, fraternal twins who are the couple's only children, to be affected by their father's political celebrity as little as possible.And they behaved as teenagers typically do, bowing to the latest pop-cultural fashions and sometimes remarking on how unfashionable their father was. In interviews with Texas journalists in the past, Mrs. Bush bemoaned that the girls's television-watching habits, at least a few years ago, included ''Beverly Hills 90210'' and ''Melrose Place,'' and noted that they would sometimes stop their father before he walked out the door, questioning his choice of attire.Even as a governor's children, they were not constantly escorted or monitored by guards, but security around the entire family tightened earlier this year with the arrival of the Secret Service, much to the girls chagrin, an aide to Mr. Bush said.According to the aide and several of Mr. Bush's friends, the girls' low public profile reflects their own desires as much as their parents' efforts. For example, Barbara and Jenna Bush briefly considered accompanying their parents to the polls in Texas for the Republican primary; it was, after all, the first election cycle in which the girls were old enough to vote.One of Mr. Bush's advisers said Barbara and Jenna Bush had learned early on that even the most seemingly harmless exposure could yield accidental humiliation.About six years ago, when a television crew shot footage of the Bushes decorating their Christmas tree, the telephone rang and Mr. Bush joked that it might be a boy who liked Jenna. When the story was broadcast, it included both that comment and Jenna's mortified reaction.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin has been named chairman of the committee that will draft the Republican platform at the party's national convention this summer, an appointment that abortion rights advocates regard as a sign that George W. Bush, the presumed presidential nominee, will not ease the party's staunch anti-abortion position. Two years ago, Governor Thompson signed legislation outlawing the procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion. Kate Michelman, president of the National Abortion Rights Action League, said the selection showed that Mr. Bush, despite his advocacy of inclusiveness, ''cares about what the far right of his party wants.'' Mr. Thompson said after his appointment on Monday that he looked forward to ''serving on the committee to articulate our party's most innovative ideas, the principles that bind us together and our vision for the future.'' Irvin Molotsky (NYT)The latest USA Today/CNN/Gallup presidential preference poll gives Gov. George W. Bush a five-point lead over Vice President Al Gore, 49 percent to 44 percent. The poll also indicates that should Mr. Bush pick Senator John McCain of Arizona as his running mate, he would widen his lead. Among all voters, the poll found, 2 of 3 would not be more inclined to vote for Mr. Bush if Mr. McCain were added to the ticket. But among independents, 2 of 5 said they would be more inclined to vote for Mr. Bush with Mr. McCain on the ticket. The poll, which surveyed 1,003 likely voters from April 28 to 30, has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five points. In a USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll taken three weeks earlier, Mr. Bush led Mr. Gore by nine points. B. Drummond Ayres Jr. (NYT)
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,BUSH VOWS FIGHT IN CALIFORNIA -- On the second of what will amount to at least four swings through California this spring, Gov. George W. Bush insisted yesterday that he was determined to fight for the state's 54 electoral votes and would not repeat the actions of the last two Republican presidential nominees, who made an early show of interest in California and then effectively ceded it toward the end of the campaign. ''I intend to campaign all the way through November here,'' Mr. Bush said in Mission Viejo, where he visited a charter school. Although Mr. Bush rarely edges up to anything resembling a criticism of his father, former President George Bush, who lost his re-election bid in 1992, the Texas governor said on Wednesday that one reason Republicans had hit hard times in California was that the party's presidential nominees in 1992 and 1996 had abandoned any hope of winning the state. Frank Bruni (NYT)READ MY LIPS: NO SMIRK -- California was not the only place where Gov. George W. Bush discussed his father's presidential campaigns. In an ABC News interview to be broadcast today, he says his father seriously undermined his credibility by breaking the ''read my lips, no new taxes'' pledge that had helped him win the White House in 1988. The Texas governor, who himself has taken a no-new-taxes pledge, says the switch helped lead to his father's defeat by Bill Clinton. As for President Clinton, Mr. Bush sharply criticizes his affair with Monica S. Lewinsky. ''He and Mrs. Clinton have done a great job with their daughter, no question about it,'' Mr. Bush says. ''But Bill Clinton, unfortunately, in the last chapter of the 20th century, embarrassed our nation.''Mr. Bush gave Vice President Al Gore credit for being ''a loving husband and a good dad.'' But he says he is ''a little worried about a man who tends to stretch the truth in order to get ahead politically.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Two Democratic senators today criticized Vice President Al Gore's approach to Social Security, saying his plan would make the retirement system dependent on general tax revenue.Mr. Kerrey recently met to discuss Social Security with Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the expected Republican presidential nomineee.Right after the three senators spoke, two other Democratic senators, Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota and Charles E. Schumer of New York, held their own news conference to criticize Mr. Bush's interest in including individual investment accounts as an element of overhauling Social Security.Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush advocate sharply different approaches to Social Security.Mr. Gore has put paying down the $3.5 trillion national debt at the center of his economic agenda. That would reduce the federal government's interest payments. He proposes to keep Social Security solvent through 2050 by allocating the interest savings to the retirement system.Mr. Bush is to speak next week on Social Security and include a call for putting some portion of payroll taxes into private accounts. Under this approach, part of the retirement benefit would be guaranteed and part would fluctuate with individual investment decisions.Mr. Moynihan and Mr. Kerrey were drawn into spelling out their differences with their party's presumptive presidential nominee by reporters. Mr. Moynihan branded the word ''privatization'' a ''scare word,'' and he and Mr. Kerrey said Mr. Gore's approach would in essence change the very nature of the retirement program.Asked about the commission today, Mr. Gore dismissed the idea, saying: ''These commissions are in the eye of the beholder. I disagree with them, and agree instead with the great majority of Democrats and Republicans in the Senate and the House who are not for privatization of Social Security.''Mr. Bush, campaigning in California, praised the three senators. ''I appreciate so very much the tone of their press conference,'' he said. ''This shouldn't be a partisan issue.''
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Late last year Trent Lott, the Senate majority leader, and other foes of the McCain-Feingold bill that would ban the unlimited donations to political parties known as soft money never tired of saying that this was an issue of little interest to American voters. Then the reform cause was energized by Senator John McCain's primary campaign, and by a Democratic race in which Vice President Al Gore declared that enactment of the soft-money ban would be one of his highest priorities as president.Unfortunately, Gov. George W. Bush has so far joined Mr. Lott as an obstacle to reform. He says he favors a ban on corporation and union contributions to parties, but he would leave open a wide loophole by allowing unlimited donations to parties from individuals. Like other opponents of reform, he calls it a free speech issue. But Congress set limits on individual donations to candidates in 1974 after the Watergate scandals, and the legislation before Congress would simply extend those limits to donations to parties, which have been used to undermine the old reforms.Mr. McCain is to meet with the presumptive party nominee in a few days to talk about issues. He needs to press Mr. Bush to support his campaign finance legislation in the Senate, where it commands majority support, and Mr. Bush ought to sign on to real reform. Americans want it. Most in Congress want it. Now even the donors want it. Mr. Bush and Mr. Lott should not stand in their way.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,In both the Republican and Democratic parties, the presidential primaries this year were intense, competitive and, as a practical matter, over very quickly. Especially on the Republican side, there was a feeling that a more leisurely schedule would have given voters a better chance to think about the dramatic contrasts in style and message presented by Gov. George W. Bush and Senator John McCain. Now, a Republican Party commission led by Bill Brock, a former senator and party chairman, has put forward a plan to slow down the primary season so that it is more likely to last a full four months. This is a sound plan that ought to be adopted by the Republican National Convention this summer and copied by the Democrats, as well.The presumptive nominees, Governor Bush and Vice President Al Gore, should push their parties to adopt this plan for a fairer, slower, more democratic primary season.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,''In merger law, the Clinton administration has a great deal in common with the Reagan and Bush years,'' said John Shepard Wiley Jr., a law professor at the University of California at Los Angeles. ''The analysis has become bipartisan.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Praise for the cardinal came from President Clinton, Gov. George E. Pataki, the Rev. Billy Graham, the presidential rivals Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and Vice President Al Gore, the Senate rivals Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Hillary Rodham Clinton, United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan and many others. In general they were much the same, with phrases about the cardinal's ''eloquent voice,'' and ''courage, selflessness and devotion to duty.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,2 Democrats Fault a Gore PlanTwo Democratic senators, Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, criticized Vice President Al Gore's approach to Social Security, saying his plan would make the system dependent on general tax revenue. A22
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Gore Anticrime ProposalVice President Al Gore called for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees. His proposal would have the government spend $500 million a year to help states test, treat and counsel prisoners and parolees for drug use. A24Bush Aides Fight BackAides to Gov. George W. Bush disputed accusations by Vice President Al Gore that Mr. Bush's fiscal proposals were risky. They said economic growth in the last six months meant that there would be enough money to easily accommodate the governor's spending and tax cut proposals. A25
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, could play a decisive role on the plan at the convention. But his campaign had no comment tonight, saying Mr. Bush looked forward to studying the report.On the Democratic side, the national committee's satisfaction with the existing system reflected the position of the campaign of Vice President Al Gore.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Mr. Clinton addressed high school students at City Academy here as part of a two-day tour of public schools in Kentucky, Iowa, Minnesota and Ohio, in which he is pushing his own education proposals and those of Vice President Al Gore, the likely Democratic presidential candidate.Both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore have been pushing plans that would punish schools that are given more money but continue to fail, in response to Republican criticism that they have poured more and more money into education programs without insisting on results.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Three weeks before a closely watched vote in Congress on trade relations with China, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and his advisers are making sure to remind Capitol Hill Republicans of his support for the bill and have not ruled out his calling undecided House Republicans.Aides said Mr. Bush was planning to give a speech the week before the House vote, which is expected between May 22 and Memorial Day, to explain anew why he feels so strongly about facilitating trade between the United States and China.''I'll speak out about it,'' Mr. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said aboard his campaign plane Wednesday afternoon, referring to the vote.Asked if he would phone individual Republicans who were undecided, Mr. Bush first said he doubted it, then added, ''I shouldn't say categorically no.''Several aides to Mr. Bush said the possibility of such calls had been discussed by Republican officials on Capitol Hill and some of the governor's advisers in Austin, Tex., but that nothing had been decided.But one aide to Mr. Bush said the governor was wary of doing anything, on any issue, that resembled outright lobbying, because such actions might appear inappropriate.It could work to Mr. Bush's advantage to sway them, because it would demonstrate that his calls for more open trade with China have not fallen on deaf ears in his own party. Moreover, it would show he can exert leadership over Republicans and promote cohesiveness among them.But Mr. Bush has almost equal reason not to push too hard. Should the measure fail, its loss would owe more to Democratic opposition than Republican and would give Mr. Bush another issue with which to beat Vice President Al Gore, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, who also supports it.Mr. Bush could argue that the Clinton administration -- and by extension Mr. Gore -- could not win enough Congressional cooperation to pass any meaningful legislation, political analysts said.Indeed, discussing the vote aboard his campaign jet, Mr. Bush tried to shift the topic from his plans to those of Mr. Gore. Referring to telephoning members of Congress, Mr. Bush said: ''The interesting question is, Will Vice President Gore? Because it's his administration that's trying to get the bill through.''Several House Republican aides said that Mr. Bush would probably not be asked to approach individual Republicans, because House Republicans already knew where the governor stood on the issue and would have factored that into their deliberations.''Not one member has said, 'Is Governor Bush with us? I could use a call' '' one House aide said. ''But if a member says it would be really helpful to get a call from Governor Bush, we'd ask him, and we're confident he'd say yes.''Several House Republican aides said that Mr. Bush would probably not be asked to approach individual Republicans, because House Republicans already knew where the governor stood on the issue.For months along the campaign trail, Mr. Bush has declared his support for permanent normalized trade relations with China.Last week, Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's chief foreign policy adviser, discussed the issue with House and Senate Republicans, but she said today that she did not meet specifically with undecided Republicans or argue Mr. Bush's position.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,BUSH SEEKS HELP -- Gov. George W. Bush of Texas reached out yesterday for an experienced Republican hand, Andrew H. Card Jr., to watch over Bush interests at this summer's national convention in Philadelphia. Mr. Card, vice president for governmental relations for the General Motors Corporation, worked in the White House under President George Bush as deputy chief of staff and later was transportation secretary. He is the second member of the elder Bush's cabinet to join the governor's political organization in recent weeks. The first was Richard B. Cheney, President Bush's defense secretary, who was chosen to run the governor's vice presidential search committee. Alison Mitchell (NYT)ABORTION RIGHTS ALERT -- The National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League is promoting Vice President Al Gore with a television advertisement warning that if Gov. George W. Bush, the presumptive Republican nominee, is elected president, he will appoint Supreme Court justices who will overturn Roe v. Wade, the landmark abortion rights decision. The commercials also warn that Mr. Bush ''even supports a constitutional amendment to outlaw abortion.'' Mr. Bush is on record as saying that he will appoint justices who will ''strictly interpret'' the Constitution. Kate Michelman, president of the league, says many pro-rights supporters have been lulled into thinking that the right to a legal abortion is secure when, in fact, it is in danger because two or more supporters may leave the court in the next administration. B. Drummond Ayres Jr. (NYT)THE FAMILIES --REPORT ON FATAL CRASH -- Details in a 1963 accident report say that Laura Bush, then 17, ran a stop sign in the Texas crash that killed a friend in another car. The report, adding information to previous reports of the crash, was released yesterday. Mrs. Bush is the wife of the Republican presidential nominee-to-be George W. Bush, the Texas governor. The report said Laura Welch was driving her Chevrolet sedan on a clear night shortly after 8 p.m. on Nov. 6, 1963, when she drove into an intersection and struck a car driven by her friend, 17-year-old Michael Douglas. No charges were filed. (A.P.)
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,He is also hoping to draw attention to Vice President Al Gore's education proposals while at least indirectly criticizing those of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the likely Republican presidential nominee.Mr. Gore's battle against Mr. Bush is expected to be fierce in all four states that Mr. Clinton is visiting on this trip -- Mr. Bush recently ran an advertisement attacking the Clinton administration's education policies in Kentucky and Iowa.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,More pointedly, Moshe Gorelick, in an article in a haredi weekly titled ''Even in Israel They Deny the Holocaust,'' said the official Holocaust Day explicitly disdained those who ''kept their godly souls until the last minute'' as ''going like lambs to the slaughter.''
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,Gore finds its justification only in what it adds to game play, and when the novelty of blood-spouting necks wore off, I found myself wishing this advanced damage model had served as inspiration for other elements of the game. The creators seem so taken with the depictions of violence that they have neglected the fear and dread that the carnage should inspire in its victims and perpetrators.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Vice President Al Gore, treading carefully, broke with the Clinton administration and also suggested that the case was best left to the courts.At stake is a crucial group of Cuban-American voters, which leans Republican but helped deliver Florida to President Clinton in 1996. Some analysts say Republicans were just trying to help George W. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, win Florida.''Some would suggest that if Gore can deny Bush Florida, Gore would be hard to beat,'' said Brian Kennedy, a Republican political consultant. ''Republicans want to remind people that it was the Clinton administration that came in and pointed guns to take this boy back.''
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,The presidential race is also expected to have a significant impact on the campaign. Republicans are counting on a strong showing by Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, their presumptive presidential nominee, to help Mr. Vinroot. Mr. Bush is heavily favored to win North Carolina, but the size of a Bush victory could be crucial.''If George Bush is a really strong candidate, if he's winning at the level of Reagan in '84 or Nixon in '72, Easley can hang it up,'' said Ted Arrington, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. ''If George is more like his father or Bob Dole, there's a good chance that Mike Easley will be our next governor.''
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,The title of Edmund Wilson's book on Civil War writings, ''Patriotic Gore,'' is an apt phrase for Mr. Bradley's work. As a reconstruction of one of the bloodiest battles of World War II, ''Flags of Our Fathers'' is straightforwardly patriotic. There is no historical revisionism here; in Mr. Bradley's vision, the Americans are the good guys, and the Japanese enemy, while brave, is ruthless and unspeakably cruel.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,The cardinal's failing health in recent months diminished his public appearances and his position as a spokesman for the Roman Catholic Church, but it did not diminish his stature as one of its most powerful symbols on moral and political issues. When Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, seeking the Republican nomination for president, expressed regret on Feb. 27 for not speaking out against racial and anti-Catholic intolerance during a campaign visit to Bob Jones University in South Carolina, he did so in the form of a letter to Cardinal O'Connor.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Mr. Stewart declined through a spokeswoman to comment on the charges yesterday. The spokeswoman, Kelly Bush, said that Mr. Stewart had not yet been notified of the action.Mr. Stewart said that before he made the speech, he alerted Mr. Miller; the play's director, David Esbjornson; Ms. Bush; and the rest of the cast. The actors declined through a secret ballot to join Mr. Stewart onstage.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,HAMADA-Dorothy, (nee Fleischmann). Died May 1, 2000 at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Devoted mother of Edwin Hamada & Roslyn (Barry) Gore, grandmother of Adam (Kathy) Hamada, Jill Hamada, Audrey (Sean) Jacobs, Wendy (Bradley) Gordon, Matthew Hamada & Nikelle Hamada. Dear sister of the late Rose Wenig Bernard Fleischmann. Adored aunt, cousin and friend to many. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, and Lauderdale Lakes, FL. ''Dotty'' worked alongside her husband, Joe, at Allied Button Corp. & ABC Button Co in N.Y.C., which they owned until their retirement in 1973. She inspired all who know her & will live in the hearts of her family and friends forever. Services were held May 3. Jewish Memorial Chapel, Clifton, NJ for information.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,But the grades have also been used for more drastic measures. Florida legislators voted to give private-school vouchers to students at schools that receive F's for two years out of four. the state is appealing a court decision that ruled the vouchers, but not the grading, unconstitutional. In a speech outlining his presidential campaign pledges on education, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas proposed grading all schools and stripping some federal financing from those that received low grades for three years.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,But would it work? Previous efforts to change the system have not always succeeded as the sponsors had hoped. Some failed immediately. In 1988, for instance, Southern Democrats' effort to exert conservative influence by grouping their primaries on what became known as Super Tuesday failed, giving more aid to two liberal candidates, Michael S. Dukakis and Jesse Jackson, than their favorite son, Al Gore.Another major problem would be money. One dirty little secret of the present system is that while it schedules primaries from January until June, the federal matching grant system does not provide money for a primary contest that lasts beyond April, when recent races have been over. Even the wealthy Bush campaign, which rejected public funding to avoid donation limits, would be flat broke if it were still buying television time today.Bob Shrum, a veteran Democratic consultant now working for Vice President Gore, said that ''for people who are relying on public funding, it would be a huge problem.''
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,In a sharp exchange that gave the presidential campaign the intensity of a day in late October, Vice President Al Gore accused Gov. George W. Bush today of devising a ''secret plan'' that could bankrupt the Social Security system. Hours later, Mr. Bush tartly questioned the vice president's honesty and predicted that Mr. Gore's attacking style would soon backfire.Echoing a theme he has repeated often in recent days, Mr. Gore used a speech to union officials in New Jersey to assert that Mr. Bush, the likely Republican nominee, was quietly developing a ''risky'' plan to allow individual investment accounts in Social Security that would jeopardize millions of taxpayers' savings.''How does the Bush plan propose to deal with the bankruptcy of Social Security that his privatization scheme would cause?'' Mr. Gore told a gathering of A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials in Atlantic City. ''He doesn't even bother to provide an answer. He just smiles and goes on with the smug assumption that there's no need to share with you the details of what he wants to do.''Responding to Mr. Gore's cascade of attacks, Mr. Bush spent much of a plane flight this afternoon from Austin, Tex., to Palm Springs, Calif., telling reporters that the vice president had flatly misrepresented his record on a host of issues, ranging from the Texas budget to his positions on China and Russia to his crime-fighting policies.''Someone running for the highest office of the land should stick to the facts,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I think it is a pattern to say things, to stretch the truth. He's the man who said he invented the Internet.''Asked whether Mr. Gore's aggressive campaigning might work as well against him as it did against former Senator Bill Bradley during the Democratic primaries, Mr. Bush said he planned to respond faster and more forcefully than Mr. Bradley.In fact, rather than being aggrieved by his opponent's attacks, Mr. Bush seemed somewhat amused by the constant salvos from the vice president, suggesting that Mr. Gore's strategy was self-defeating. ''Pretty soon, it's going to have a corrosive effect on his campaign if he's not telling the truth,'' Mr. Bush said of Mr. Gore during the 78-minute airborne news conference. ''The fact that he relies on facts -- says things that are not factual -- are going to undermine his campaign.''Mr. Gore's aides clearly disagree. Privately, they contend that the slashing strategy they employed during the primaries will work again in the general election, provided they avoid the appearance of attacking Mr. Bush personally.''The primaries showed that voters believe that vigorously debating your opponent on issues is considered fair play,'' said one adviser to Mr. Gore.Mr. Gore also used his Atlantic City speech to discuss his own proposal for keeping the Social Security system solvent.''I will devote all interest from debt reduction to shore up Social Security,'' Mr. Gore said. ''I think it is wrong to cut benefits, raise the retirement age or risk your retirement savings in a game of stock market roulette.''But that description amounted to one brief passage in a 35-minute speech that was devoted mainly to attacking Mr. Bush on a variety of fronts, particularly Social Security.Under the proposal floated by Mr. Bush's aides in recent days, taxpayers would be allowed to invest a small part of their Social Security payroll taxes in the stock or bond markets.Mr. Bush's aides argue that such a plan would help taxpayers take advantage of the stock market's historic growth.But Mr. Gore asserted today that the plan would make the system vulnerable to huge market fluctuations that could hurt millions of retirees. And as he has repeatedly done in recent days, he suggested that Mr. Bush was charting a course that was ''reckless'' and ''irresponsible.''''To me, Social Security is more than a government program,'' he said. ''It is a solemn compact between the generations.'' Governor Bush, he added, ''seems to believe differently.''Mr. Gore asserted that Mr. Bush had ''left the door wide open'' to raising the retirement age for Social Security as a means of bolstering the system.That approach, he argued, would be harmful to people who do strenuous manual labor and physically cannot postpone retirement. And he accused Mr. Bush of wanting to cut Social Security spending to pay for a tax cut that Mr. Gore argues would favor the rich.Mr. Bush's aides acknowledge that he has not ruled out raising the retirement age. But they note that he has not formulated a detailed plan yet, only the general principles for one. Those include not increasing Social Security taxes, not cutting benefits and setting aside the Social Security surplus in a ''lockbox'' to make sure it is used only on Social Security.It was Mr. Bush's lack of a detailed plan that caused Mr. Gore to accuse the Texas governor of devising a ''secret plan'' today.''He wants to spring it on you after the election,'' Mr. Gore said. ''Well, I think he may be underestimating the capacity of the American people to figure out for ourselves what the details of his secret plan would mean for each and every American.''But if Mr. Gore's barbs were meant to rattle Mr. Bush, they failed. Indeed, what was extraordinary about today's exchange was the almost delighted mood that Mr. Bush brought to his end of it.Mr. Bush was on his way to California for several days of campaigning, including a fund-raiser in Palm Springs tonight for the Republican Party that was expected to bring in about $1 million.On the flight, Mr. Bush revealed a few more glimmers than usual of his obvious distaste for what he seems to see as Mr. Gore's desperation to be president.Usually, Mr. Bush does a more thorough job of pulling his punches when he is asked what he thinks about Mr. Gore as a person.After a reporter told Mr. Bush that Mr. Gore, whose first grandchild was born on the Fourth of July, sometimes says to Hispanic audiences that he hopes his second grandchild will be born on Cinco de Mayo, Mr. Bush muttered, ''Totally pathetic.''At another point, talking about his own desire for the presidency, Mr. Bush said: ''I'm willing to work for it. What I'm not willing to do is sell my soul to become the president.''Asked if Mr. Gore would do that, Mr. Bush arched an eyebrow and said, ''That's for you all to figure out.''Mr. Bush did not use the word ''lied,'' and when reporters did, he corrected them, coyly repeating again and again that he was simply setting the record straight and expressing his ''disappointment'' in Mr. Gore's behavior.''The vice president said I've never submitted a budget as governor of Texas'' said Mr. Bush, reciting the comments by Mr. Gore that he deemed untruthful. ''He talked about recidivism rates that were totally inaccurate numbers.''''He said I called China and Russia enemies,'' Mr. Bush added. ''Have I ever referred to China and Russia as enemies?''Mr. Bush shook his head and veered toward what he clearly intended to be a kind of emotional and moral high ground.Will we roll the dice in the same casino economics that devastated our economy and hurt working families? Does anyone in this room think we should go back to the union-busting, job-destroying, budget-busting policies of the Bush-Quayle years. I don't think so. . . .There are deep and profound differences between Governor Bush and me. Not personal differences, but real differences on the issues. I believe America has to put its fundamental responsibilities first. We have to pay down our debt, we have to save Social Security, we have to lift up working families.George W. Bush believes instead that our top priority should be a reckless $2 trillion tax giveaway lavishing more on those who already have the most. . . .His tax plan is bigger than anything Newt Gingrich ever dreamed of proposing. That may be why Governor Bush does not set aside a single penny for Medicare. And I believe his approach to Social Security is even more irresponsible.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,A May 2 letter writer presumes to speak for ''middle-of-the-road gays'' who ''resent being taken for granted by the Democratic Party'' and want a ''return to decency, honesty and virtue in the White House,'' even if this means voting for George W. Bush. My middle-of-the-road gay experience is very different from his.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,He staged a midcareer resurgence in the 50's by putting a mute in his horn and familiar pop melodies in his hands. In 1952 Mr. Jones received an offer from the pianist Joe Bushkin to fill in at the Embers, one of New York's 52nd Street jazz clubs. Mr. Jones agreed to put a mute in his horn; this quieter sound was what his predecessor in the band, Buck Clayton, had adopted, and it was what the restaurant preferred. Mr. Jones, whose resume included stints with the society band leaders Lester Lanin and Meyer Davis, wasn't particularly fazed. Despite the fact that his regular style was open, forceful and swinging in the Louis Armstrong vein, he knew how to play softly too.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,It was not the spectacular golf course on a cove overlooking the Pacific Ocean that led Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania to fly here the other day to address a group of Republicans (though he did squeeze in a round before his speech). It was the chance to do something a politician rarely does: praise another politician more than himself. The object of his affection was Gov. George W. Bush.Bill Richardson, the secretary of energy, cut short a visit to India for meetings on nuclear proliferation last October so he could be in New Hampshire to toss questions at Vice President Al Gore in preparation for his first debate with Bill Bradley. After only 28 hours in India, Mr. Richardson rushed to London and then flew to Boston, where a waiting Gore aide frantically drove him to Hanover, N.H., just in time to catch the vice president in the parking lot.They are also seeking to score points with Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore by stumping for them around the country, dispensing unsolicited political and policy tips and seizing every opportunity to say flattering things about their party's standard bearer. Mindful that they not appear unseemly, the one thing they dare not do is utter two words directly to the candidate: running mate.The Gore and Bush camps have only begun their painstaking hunts to find just the right running mate, and to resolve perhaps the one lingering mystery in the presidential sweepstakes before the national conventions in late summer.In recent days, Tony Coelho, Mr. Gore's campaign chairman, has been making the rounds, informing some politicians -- even some that others on the campaign said they did not consider hot prospects -- that they were in contention.Warren Christopher, the former secretary of state, is running the vice presidential screening process for Mr. Gore. The vice president turned to him because Mr. Christopher had the same job in 1992, when he helped Bill Clinton settle on Senator Gore.Mr. Bush has picked Dick Cheney, a former defense secretary and White House chief of staff who served under his father, to conduct his search.Since the Republican convention is first, Mr. Gore's choice may be in direct reaction to Mr. Bush's. For example, Gore advisers said that if Mr. Bush picks a woman, they might feel pressure to do the same.But Mr. Coelho said that because he and Mr. Gore know most of the contenders pretty well, one of Mr. Christopher's most important duties is to oversee background checks.Many Democrats say that Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts has been one of the most obvious practitioners of the subtle-but-aggressive approach. He traveled to early primary states to campaign for Mr. Gore and, the Gore campaign has noticed, has delivered speeches on national policy that helped raise his profile.On the Republican side, advisers to Elizabeth Dole made no secret of her desire to help Mr. Bush -- and get her name out. After ending her own bid for the Republican nomination, she frequently stumped for Mr. Bush in early primary states. And she has the added benefit that her husband, Bob Dole, trumpets her availability while she plays coy.Mr. Ridge is an obvious contender because he comes from a battleground state, has a compelling biography as a Vietnam veteran and is versed in national issues from his days in Congress. Most of all, he gets along well with Mr. Bush. To many Republicans, his biggest drawback is that he favors abortion rights, but that position could help Mr. Bush appeal to independents and other swing voters.In his appearance here before the Lincoln Club of Northern California, a group of moderate Republicans, Mr. Ridge, brimming with praise for Mr. Bush, spoke of the governor's ''candor, his mischievous humor, his directness, his decision-making ability.''Mr. Ridge said the governor's ''compassionate conservative message makes a lot of sense.'' He defended Mr. Bush's controversial proposal to cut taxes by nearly half a trillion dollars, saying, ''I don't think Governor Bush should abandon his plan to cut taxes.''After the event, Mr. Ridge insisted in an interview that he had been careful not to campaign to be picked as Mr. Bush's running mate. ''I don't think it's his style,'' Mr. Ridge said of Mr. Bush. ''I don't think it's appropriate. It's certainly not my style.''
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,HAMADA-Dorothy, nee Fleishman, of West Caldwell, N.J. on Monday, May 1st, age 91. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Hamada. Devoted mother of Roslyn Gore of Clifton, N.J and Edwin Hamada. Dear Sister of the late Rose Wenig and Bernard Fleishman. Loving grandmother of Ada (Kathy) Jill, Audrey, Jacobs (Sean), Wendy Gordon (Bradley), Matthew and Nikelle. Services at Jewish Memorial Chapel, 841 Allwood Rd., Clifton, N.J. today at 9:00am
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,I agree that being a ''10'' is not a requirement for leading the country, but women everywhere should recognize that men, too, are constantly evaluated on the basis of their appearance. We need only to recall Michael S. Dukakis riding in a tank or the new earth-tone Al Gore to realize that dress, manner and looks are important parameters of public perception.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,Gore and Bush Trade Barbs Over Policy and StyleVice President Al Gore accused Gov. George W. Bush of devising a ''secret plan'' that could bankrupt the Social Security system. Hours later, Mr. Bush questioned the vice president's honesty and predicted that Mr. Gore's attacks would backfire. A1Gun companies have broken off settlement talks in suits by 31 cities and counties in hope that judges will prove sympathetic or that victory in November will go to the apparent Republican presidential nominee, George W. Bush, who as governor of Texas has been a staunch defender of the industry and gun owners. A16
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Vice President Al Gore continued his intensive assault against Gov. George W. Bush's policies today, saying his Republican rival had been inordinately influenced by the National Rifle Association and had proposed an inadequate health care plan that ''offers too little for too few at the expense of too many.''But when asked later by reporters about Mr. Bush's comments that Mr. Gore's attacks were having a corrosive influence on the political process, Mr. Gore refused to respond directly, saying the nation deserved a vigorous debate on the issues.Mr. Gore had intended to deliver a health care speech here, since he was addressing the inaugural meeting of the Association of Health Care Journalists, at Northwestern University Memorial Hospital.But his aides said he had been captivated by reports in the morning newspapers that suggested that the gun lobby was thrilled at the prospect of a Bush presidency, and Mr. Gore rewrote his speech as he flew here this morning from Washington to draw attention to those reports.The New York Times reported that gun manufacturers had broken off settlement talks with 31 cities and counties in hopes that a Bush administration would be more sympathetic than the Clinton administration has been. And The Washington Post reported that Kayne Robinson, first vice president of the N.R.A., had said in a speech to members in February that if Mr. Bush was elected, the gun lobby would expect to have ''a president where we work out of their office.''Handgun Control Inc., a lobbying group, began running a 30-second television commercial today that uses videotape of the speech and attacks Mr. Bush as a pawn of the National Rifle Association.In his speech, Mr. Gore said, ''Governor Bush has convinced the N.R.A. that he wants to take the gun lobbyists out of the lobby and put them right into the Oval Office.''Mr. Gore's point was that gun violence, apart from killing people, was straining the nation's health care system, to the tune of $2.3 billion annually, according to the Journal of the American Medical Association, and that Mr. Bush was so deeply in the pocket of the gun lobby that he could not recognize this problem.Mr. Bush dismissed those accusations. ''I make my positions on what I think is right,'' he said at a news conference in Orange County, Calif. ''If this is an attempt by my opponent to frighten people, I'm not going to let that happen.''Asked about Mr. Robinson's speech, Mr. Bush said: ''I don't want to disappoint the man, but I'll be setting up shop in the White House. It'll be my office. I'll make the decision as to what goes on in the White House.''Repeating an accusation he has made before, Mr. Bush said: ''I want to say something: I've never been a member of the N.R.A. I think Al Gore's been a member of the N.R.A., if I'm not mistaken.''This accusation momentarily befuddled both campaigns, neither of which could find evidence that Mr. Gore had belonged to the gun lobby. Scott McClellan, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said the governor might have been referring to a Time magazine article this year that quoted an N.R.A. official as saying Mr. Gore, who represented rural Tennessee in Congress, had once been so opposed to gun control that he could have been the poster boy for it.Mr. McClellan said of Mr. Gore, ''I guess he never got around to paying his dues.''Asked whether Mr. Bush had misspoken, Mr. McClellan said, ''I'll leave it at that.''Chris Lehane, a spokesman for Mr. Gore, said: ''The campaign has no record of Al Gore being a member of the N.R.A.''Gore aides said Mr. Gore might have inadvertently become a member through a magazine subscription or some other organization.''The burden of proof is on Bush,'' Mr. Lehane said. ''He ought to be held to the same standards on distortions that you guys are holding the Gore campaign to.''Mr. Bush again said Mr. Gore was distorting his record and ''saying things that simply are not true.''''It's amazing that a person running for president of the United States would look people in the eye and say I've never submitted budgets as governor and continue to say so when I did,'' Mr. Bush said.At a news conference, Mr. Gore declined to respond to Mr. Bush's accusations that he was not being factual. But the vice president, who has said Mr. Bush has never put together a real budget, brought that up again. He said he happened to have in his pocket what he said was a copy of Mr. Bush's 1995 budget. He handed it to a reporter, saying, ''If you think that's a budget, then maybe I can convince you it's a duck.''
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,In a speech pungent with tough talk about criminals, drug abusers and his Republican rival for president, Vice President Al Gore called today for a broad array of anticrime measures, among them mandatory drug testing of all prisoners and parolees.Choosing a Southern state as the backdrop for one of his most conservative speeches of the presidential campaign, Mr. Gore proposed federal spending of $500 million a year to help states test, treat and counsel prisoners and parolees for drug use.''When inmates are sent back to the streets unrehabilitated, unrepentant and unskilled, then they are just going to commit more crime and go right back into prison,'' Mr. Gore said to a crowd filled with uniformed police officers.As in all his recent policy speeches, the vice president used a harsh tone to attack Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the apparent Republican presidential nominee, this time maintaining that he had cut state financing of drug treatment by half.As a result of such policies, Mr. Gore said, Texas under Mr. Bush has experienced a 25 percent increase in the number of former inmates returned to prison for new crimes within three years of release.Mr. Gore did not suggest that Mr. Bush had been soft on crime, a position that would be hard to defend: in Mr. Bush's five and a half years as governor, Texas has undertaken the nation's largest prison-building program, executed a record number of criminals, lengthened sentences for many crimes and incarcerated a rising number of juveniles.But the vice president did say: ''I believe that we should demand that criminals get clean before they get out of jail. Governor Bush seems content to keep pushing them out of the same revolving door.''Aides to Mr. Bush disputed Mr. Gore's statistic on Texas recidivism and his accusation that the governor had cut financing of drug treatment. They also said violent crime in the state had fallen 20 percent, to a 20-year low, during the Bush administration. And they asserted that the availability of drug treatment in federal prisons had declined during the Clinton-Gore administration, even as drug use among adolescents had risen (an assertion disputed in turn by the Gore campaign).''If Al Gore is willing to attack Texas, where violent crime is at a 20-year low and the largest prison drug-treatment program in the country is located, we're also expecting attacks on Texans for defending the Alamo,'' said Dan Bartlett, a Bush aide.Just as Mr. Bush has tried to move further to the center of the political spectrum with education and health care proposals, Mr. Gore's crime speech today provided him an opportunity to reach out to centrist Republicans and conservative Democrats. And he seized it with gusto.''We can't go back to the finger-pointing and failed strategies that led to that steep increase in crime in the Bush-Quayle administration,'' he said. ''And we can't go back to the old Democratic approach, which was tough on the causes of crime but not tough enough on crime itself, again when people in both political parties wanted us to do more.''Mr. Gore's effort to outflank Governor Bush on crime recalls Bill Clinton's drive in the 1992 campaign to neutralize what had been a potent Republican issue by advocating tough anticrime measures, including the death penalty.The vice president's speech today, typifying the administration's approach to policy making, offered a mixture of ideas -- some new, some old, many small-bore. Several of the ideas were first discussed by Mr. Gore in a crime speech last July in Boston, where he called for longer sentences for all crimes committed with guns and for requiring photo-bearing licenses for people who buy new handguns.Today Mr. Gore restated his support for a proposal that federal money help local governments hire 50,000 new police officers in the coming decade. The Clinton administration has already helped finance the hiring of 60,000 new police officers, with 40,000 more in the pipeline.Mr. Gore also proposed aid to help state and local governments buy computers for crime-fighting purposes, hire new prosecutors and expand after-school programs.Mr. Gore also jumped into what has become a contentious debate in Congress by endorsing a constitutional amendment to expand the rights of crime victims. The amendment would grant victims and their families the right to reasonable notice of court proceedings involving their cases, the right to have a voice in those proceedings, and the right to notice of an offender's release or escape from prison.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,It has become the daily tit for tat of the presidential contest. Vice President Al Gore calls Gov. George W. Bush reckless, irresponsible, profligate or arrogant. And Mr. Bush calmly replies that the vice president is like an addict when it comes to distorting the truth.If this kind of acrid exchange seems vaguely familiar, there is good reason: During the Democratic primary campaign, Mr. Gore relentlessly attacked the proposals of former Senator Bill Bradley as risky and expensive. And Mr. Bradley calmly replied that the vice president was addicted to distorting the truth.Mr. Gore's harshly aggressive strategy worked just fine in the primaries, where Democratic voters who had initially seemed interested in Mr. Bradley abandoned him in droves. But the vice president is now engaged in a very different race against a very different opponent, who is considered quite adept at thrust-and-parry politics, and the question is, Can it work again?Many people have their doubts. Though it may seem logical for Mr. Gore to try to bathe his less well known opponent in a negative light, the strategy carries clear risks, say independent analysts and some Democrats as well.For one thing, Mr. Gore is now playing to an audience very different from that of the primary campaign. Back then he was talking to largely sympathetic crowds of Democrats. Now he must court swing voters who are likely to be more skeptical of his credibility and less accepting of his attacks on Mr. Bush. Taken too far, the attacks could make him appear unpleasant, overly partisan, mean-spirited and untrustworthy to the very independent and crossover voters he is courting.Even some Democrats seem to think that Mr. Gore's attacks occasionally go over the top. On Wednesday, Mr. Gore accused Mr. Bush of devising a ''secret'' Social Security ''privatization'' plan that would bankrupt the system. Today Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat who supports investing some of the Social Security trust fund in private markets, took issue with the word ''privatization.''Another danger for Mr. Gore is that voters will perceive his criticisms of Mr. Bush as personal. Mr. Gore's aides argue that his attacks are aimed solely at Mr. Bush's record and proposals. (Today alone, the vice president blasted Mr. Bush's positions on the census, managed care and gun control.)But the adjectives the vice president has used in describing Mr. Bush's policies -- ''reckless,'' ''risky,'' ''irresponsible,'' ''smug,'' ''arrogant,'' ''noticeably blank'' -- also seem intended to raise questions about the governor's character, intellect and competence, many analysts say.They note that Mr. Gore used similarly loaded words against Mr. Bradley, suggesting that he was an aloof elitist who viewed politics as ''an intellectual exercise.'' The Gore campaign seems to be trying to exploit the opposite with Mr. Bush, who, unlike Mr. Bradley, a Rhodes scholar, is viewed by his critics as lacking intellectual depth on complex issues, particularly foreign affairs.Mr. Gore said today that he was not particularly worried that he might be creating negative impressions among voters.And he defended his recent use of the words ''smug'' and ''arrogant,'' turning away a suggestion that they had been meant to convey something about Mr. Bush's character.''They're a commentary on the assumption that is at the heart of his campaign: that you as journalists and the American people as voters are not entitled to know the details of his private secret plan to privatize Social Security,'' Mr. Gore said.Democratic strategists argue that Mr. Gore may have little choice but to attack so vigorously and so early in the campaign, as he did against Mr. Bradley. For one thing, he is trailing Mr. Bush, although by small margins, in most polls, including those in customarily Democratic states like Washington and West Virginia. And because he is so well known, many voters already hold relatively fixed opinions of him, as many bad as good, most polls show.In contrast, Mr. Bush, despite his famous name, remains something of a mystery to voters outside Texas. So Mr. Gore, the reasoning goes, needs to define his rival as a risky, out-of-the-mainstream alternative. That was the very strategy that Mr. Bush's father, also a two-term vice president at the time, used with great success 12 years ago against another governor running for president, Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts.''If you become viewed as a risk, as Michael Dukakis was in 1988, it is a very tough road to get back from,'' said Susan Estrich, who managed Mr. Dukakis's campaign. ''If Al Gore can raise questions about Bush, Bush may never get off the ground. So Gore will just keep doing it.''But Ms. Estrich praised Mr. Bush's ability to roll with Mr. Gore's punches and, in the process, make him seem like a negative politician. ''It seems to be working,'' she said of the governor's approach. ''He's up.''In adopting Mr. Bradley's strategy of calling Mr. Gore dishonest, Bush aides have also appropriated one of Mr. Bradley's sharpest debate lines, which they often strip across news releases: ''Why should we believe you would tell the truth as president if you don't tell the truth as a candidate?''But Mr. Bush is also a candidate far different from Mr. Bradley, with a campaign quicker in its responses to the vice president's blasts. On Tuesday, for instance, Mr. Gore asserted that criminal recidivism rates in Texas had increased significantly during the Bush administration; within hours, Mr. Bush's press office had issued its own statistics rebutting the charge. Mr. Bradley's campaign sometimes let days go by before responding to attacks.And on Wednesday, after Mr. Gore's Social Security attack, Mr. Bush spent much of a flight to California giving reporters a spirited, point-by-point response to many of Mr. Gore's recent accusations.That high-altitude news conference underscored what many Republicans say are Mr. Bush's greatest strengths as a campaigner: his sunny persona, his humor and his ability to cloak tart retorts in genial language. Those traits, Republicans say, make Mr. Gore seem all the more stiff and mean-spirited by comparison.''By going into attack mode so early, and by repeating this mantra that everything Bush proposes is a risky scheme, Al Gore plays into George Bush's hands on the personality comparison,'' said Q. Whitfield Ayres, a Republican pollster. ''George Bush comes across in that case as a likable, decent guy, and Al Gore comes across as a whining, yapping little dog.''Yet there is a certain logic, some analysts say, to Mr. Gore's efforts at harshly undermining Mr. Bush, and doing so sooner rather than later.''Gore didn't stop Bradley's forward momentum overnight,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the nonpartisan Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. ''You have to lay the groundwork.''Some Strong Words About Bush''In recent weeks Vice President Al Gore has used a variety of derisive words, including ''risky,'' ''irresponsible,'' ''smug'' and ''reckless,'' to characterize the proposals of Gov. George W. Bush. Here is a sampling.MARCH 16 -- ''Governor Bush's tax scheme is so risky, so reckless, that just yesterday the Republican-controlled House of Representatives, given an opportunity to vote for it, turned it down, turned the other way, said, 'We don't want to even cast a vote on that thing.' ''APRIL 30 -- ''Just this past week, Governor Bush used his brief meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Ivanov to issue a warning that his intention would be to build and deploy a global Star Wars system that he believes could defend the U.S. and all our allies against any missile launch from any source. In the 1990's, most serious analysts took a look at the implausibility of this endeavor, the fantastical price that our taxpayers would be expected to pay and the dangerously destabilizing consequences of traveling down that path and rejected this notion. Governor Bush wishes to return to it, and chose the worst possible venue in which to launch, for lack of a better phrase, his risky foreign policy scheme.''MAY 3 -- ''How does the Bush plan propose to deal with the bankruptcy of Social Security that his privatization scheme would cause? He doesn't even bother to provide an answer. He just smiles and goes on with the smug assumption that there's no need to share with you the details of what he wants to do.''
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,Robert F. Bauer, the Democratic lawyer who drew up the complaint, said he believed it was the first time the racketeering statute has been applied in a political fund-raising case, although the conservative legal watchdog group Judicial Watch cited the law in one of its complaints against the Clinton-Gore re-election committee of 1996.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,Prolific fund-raisers and generous donors will also be invited to attend a private reception with Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore before the gala.Mr. McAuliffe says he is trying to open the gala to thousands of young Democrats, who he says will pay $50 or $100 for tickets. The Democrats want to sell 14,000 arena tickets at prices from $50 to $1,000. And they have contrasted their event, which they say will encourage guests to wear blue jeans and cowboy boots, with the Republicans' black-tie affair last month in tribute to Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the party's presumptive presidential nominee.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,Faced with lawsuits by 31 cities and counties, the nation's gun companies have broken off settlement negotiations, deciding to rely on their chances that state judges will prove sympathetic or that victory in November will go to George W. Bush.Instead, people on both sides of the litigation say, the gun companies, believing that the November elections will be crucial to their future, are holding off any further settlement talks at least until they see whether Mr. Bush wins the presidency and the Republicans maintain control of Congress.At a minimum, the companies hope that Mr. Bush, who as governor of Texas has been a staunch defender of the industry and of gun owners, will help dampen the growing public sentiment for additional gun control.Beyond that, their hope is that a President Bush would help push through Congress a bill outlawing municipal suits against them. As governor, Mr. Bush got just such a law through the State Legislature with the help of the National Rifle Association.Even if those hopes are unrealized, the companies calculate, Mr. Bush would at least stop the kind of pressure the Clinton administration has put on them through Andrew M. Cuomo, the secretary of housing and urban development, to settle the suits.Robert Delfay, president of the National Shooting Sports Foundation, the industry's trade organization, said he believed that as president Mr. Bush would work to pass a law protecting gun makers from municipal suits, ''based on his actions as governor of Texas,'' where he signed not only similar legislation but also a tort-reform measure curbing lawsuits against corporations.''The industry is looking toward the election as a watershed event on this issue,'' Mr. Delfay said. ''If Bush wins, we could be going in a whole new direction.''Paul Januzzo, vice president and general counsel of one gun maker, Glock Inc., acknowledged that settlement negotiations had come to a halt and that the industry was hoping for sympathy from a Bush administration. Mr. Januzzo said that the negotiations had ''degenerated into terrorism'' with escalating demands by the plaintiffs and that he no longer trusted their lawyers or Mr. Cuomo. He said the industry viewed Mr. Bush as ''anti-lawyer.''Mr. Bush's camp has been noncommittal about whether he would back the kind of legislation the gun makers are seeking. Scott McClellan, a Bush spokesman, declined to rule out the possibility, saying simply, ''He has not addressed that at the federal level.''One big risk in the gun makers' November strategy, of course, is that Mr. Bush could lose. In that case, the industry's best hope would lie in favorable treatment by judges. And so far, the industry is batting .500 with them:Indeed, a videotape obtained by Handgun Control Inc. and first reported in today's issue of The Washington Post shows a leading official of the rifle association telling members at a closed-door meeting in February that if Mr. Bush is elected, ''we'll have a president'' where ''we will work out of their office.''The official, Kayne Robinson, the association's first vice president and Iowa Republican chairman as well, also says on the tape that this is ''a critical election,'' in which a Bush victory will produce ''a Supreme Court that will back us to the hilt.''Aides to the Bush campaign did not immediately return phone calls last night about the video, although The Post quoted one campaign spokesman, Mr. McClellan, as saying that ''neither the N.R.A. nor any special interest sets the governor's agenda.''Short of enacting federal legislation, a Bush administration and a Republican-controlled Congress could achieve the same ends through other means. One way would be to tie federal block grants for law enforcement to a condition that any city accepting the money not sue the gun companies. Federal law enforcement aid to cities and states has typically been through block grants, often with conditions attached. The Clinton administration, for example, has prided itself on providing money for the hiring of 100,000 police officers, who, under the program, were required to be assigned to community policing.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Although Mr. Flake endorsed Al Gore for the Democratic presidential nomination in February, he has criticized the vice president's education policy, which opposes vouchers. Last October, Mr. Flake gave a warm introduction to George W. Bush, whom he referred to as ''my homeboy,'' at a meeting of the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, a conservative advocacy group, at which Governor Bush outlined his education proposals.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,The company's chairman, Sam Wyly, 64, is a Texas billionaire who attracted attention earlier this year by sponsoring advertisements attacking Senator John McCain of Arizona during his Republican presidential primary battle with Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
2000-05-04T05:00:00+0000,I'm worried, though, about what this will do to Al Gore and George W. Bush. Now that the bar has been raised so high, America will be looking for a major laugh riot talent in the next president of the United States.Al Gore, on the other hand, while said to be a really amusing guy in person, is not wowing them so far -- though he has made himself more camera-ready with all that work on his pecs.
2000-05-03T05:00:00+0000,Bill East was greatly underestimated by the old guard, George Bush and Bob Dole. He upended them and became, heaven help us, the poster boy for his generation, dominating the 90's. His rise was relentless, leaving a trail of enemies behind, using any means at his disposal to rule.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,In a series of brisk exchanges last week, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush laid out their disagreements over gun control, foreign policy, tax cuts, Social Security and Mr. Bush's record in Texas. Perhaps because he is struggling to stay even with Mr. Bush in the polls, Mr. Gore was on the attack almost every day, using highly personal language to derogate his opponent's policies. The subtext, however, was not about policy. It was about experience and temperament. Mr. Gore, with his customary lack of subtlety, was suggesting that Mr. Bush is an untested leader with half-baked ideas. Stressing the value of experience is a time-honored strategy for the more seasoned candidate in presidential contests. But it comes with no guarantee of success. Otherwise we would never have had presidents named Carter, Reagan and Clinton.Jimmy Carter has been on both sides of the experience strategy. He won as a new face in 1976, but when he tried in 1980 to depict the Republican challenger, Ronald Reagan, as unready for the White House, the tactic backfired. Mr. Reagan was a deft campaigner and debater who skillfully parried Mr. Carter's attempt to make him appear a lightweight. That bit of history bears a cautionary message for Mr. Gore. Even though the vice president is the best debater in presidential politics today, Mr. Bush could gain significantly with a better-than-expected performance. For now, he is arguing that the vice president's extreme attacks distort his record and insult the voters.Down the road, however, he will have to engage Mr. Gore's points more directly. The vice president is right to raise questions about Mr. Bush's achievement in education, the environment, health care and budget issues. He may have exaggerated Mr. Bush's lack of budget experience, but his point that Texas has a weak-governor system is a valid one.On foreign policy, Mr. Gore is also raising some fair questions about Mr. Bush, though there is a fine line between the license granted politicians who speak in generalities and outright distortion. The vice president accuses the governor of having a cold-war ''mindset'' that treats China and Russia as ''enemies.'' Mr. Bush says he has gone out of his way to assert the contrary. But Mr. Bush would withdraw loans and credits to Russia over its crackdown in Chechnya and abrogate the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. These two steps would be dangerously confrontational.Even so, Mr. Gore goes too far in accusing Mr. Bush of being an isolationist. As his father's son, he would be heir to policies -- and advisers -- that are international in outlook. As for China's status as a trade partner, Mr. Bush's position is the same as that of the Clinton administration.The arena where Mr. Gore has used his toughest language, surprisingly, is the budget. He repeatedly labels as perilous both the governor's $1.3 trillion tax-cut plan and his proposal to carve private investment accounts out of the Social Security system. In fact, Mr. Gore's reliance on the word ''risky'' for almost every Bush proposal probably should inspire someone to send the vice president a thesaurus. His point, however, is right. The tax cut, which Mr. Gore says would actually cost more than $2 trillion if you included the extra interest expenses from not paying down the debt, is ill-advised. And Mr. Bush has not addressed warnings from such stellar Republicans as Alan Greenspan that a big tax cut now could hurt the economy.It is of course an exaggeration for Mr. Gore to say that Mr. Bush has a ''secret plan'' for Social Security. There is something to be said for Mr. Bush's not getting lost in details, as former Senator Bill Bradley did earlier this year on the health issue. But the governor needs to flesh out his ideas on Social Security privatization. He must also explain how he would pay for his tax cut and at the same time increase military and education spending without jeopardizing other vital programs.There is a risk that the public could be turned off by bitter exchanges over policy minutiae and budget numbers. But such debates take the measure of the candidates. For Mr. Gore they reveal a policy aficionado who also has a gladiatorial instinct for verbal combat. For Mr. Bush they reveal someone who prefers to be aloof from detail, but who may not be able to pull that off with the ease of a Ronald Reagan. As the debate over experience continues, the candidates will be eyeing the polls for a reading on what the voters make of Mr. Bush's desire to float above the fray or Mr. Gore's desire to plunge into it.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Hillary Rodham Clinton finished her tour through each of the state's 62 counties today with a sharp attack on George W. Bush's tax cut proposals, leaving her mostly Republican audience in silence.In outlining her opposition to Mr. Bush's call for a $1.3 trillion tax cut over 10 years, Mrs. Clinton said his plan would hurt efforts to win more federal money for New York because such broad-based tax reductions would deplete the surplus.''I cannot support Governor Bush's large across-the-board tax cut,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''I do not think that's right for New York or our country. The last thing we need right now before we can eliminate some of that deficit with Washington is a large across-the-board tax cut.''Mrs. Clinton's audience enthusiastically applauded her speech until she suggested tax cuts smaller than those favored by Mr. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential candidate. Many in the audience stopped practically in midclap, in apparent disagreement.
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,Following are excerpts from the prepared text of a speech about education that Vice President Al Gore delivered yesterday to the teachers union in Lansing, Mich., as provided by Mr. Gore's campaign:
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Half a century later, the highways he built can barely handle a 5 p.m. crush of commuters in their S.U.V.'s, much less a panicky evacuation of the capital. But if he were alive today, the old five-star might smile to hear the latest Clinton White House strategy. The president and his national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, have taken up a mantra that granting permanent ''normal'' trading status to China isn't just about profit opportunities, it's also about national security. At the same time, the administration has labeled the AIDS crisis in Africa a threat to national security, and Vice President Al Gore has raised similar fears with his ''new security agenda,'' which includes global warming.Mr. Gore, meanwhile, used a foreign policy speech last weekend to argue for the need for ''forward engagement'' (presumably a Gore-ism for trying to think ahead). He ticked off -- in no particular order of priority -- pandemics, economic inequality, global warming and the digital divide as potential security problems that had to be nipped in the bud.In Mr. Gore's case, the political calculation is obvious: he is trying to portray his opponent, George W. Bush, as a man caught in what he termed a cold-war mindset that sees national security only in the most conventional terms.Advisers to Mr. Bush, eager to portray the current occupants of the White House as long on butter and short on guns, carry the argument one step further: by making the list of security threats too long, they argue, the Clinton administration risks taking its eye off more imminent threats. Or as Paul Wolfowitz, dean of the school of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University and one of those advisers, wrote recently, AIDS in Africa and the environment are serious problems, but calling them national security threats carries ''the implication that conventional security is no longer something we need to worry much about.''
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,JOHN HARMS CENTER FOR THE ARTS ''Arborealis,'' photography by Cali Gorevic. Through May 24. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 30 North Van Brunt Street, Englewood. (201) 567-3600.
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,For the funeral Mass, more than 3,500 tickets will be issued for a cathedral that seats 2,300. President and Mrs. Clinton will attend, Secret Service in tow. Vice President Al Gore, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani plan to come, as well. During the Mass at 2 p.m. Monday, the streets around St. Patrick's will be closed to traffic.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Al Gore delivered a provocative foreign policy speech Sunday that raised an important question: Does George W. Bush have the experience, the gravitas and, by implication, the brains to run U.S. foreign policy?If not, said Mr. Gore, one can only assume that ''the gaps in Governor Bush's foreign policy views and experience will be filled by the ideologies and inveterate antipathies of his party -- the right-wing, partisan isolationism of the Republican Congressional leadership.''Now this is a legitimate question. Mr. Bush has no experience in foreign policy, the well-displayed gaps in his knowledge suggest he may not have even read the newspaper much, and this could make him easy prey for the foreign policy ideologues in his party.But in raising this question Mr. Gore, inadvertently, raises a question about himself -- a question that many people who respect him have been asking. If you talk to Al Gore about geopolitics, the Internet or the global economy, you leave feeling he really does get it. But what good are brains if you don't always act on them? Mr. Bush may not have the brains to always do the right thing, but does Mr. Gore have the spine?Most of Mr. Gore's speech was a serious appeal for an activist, internationalist U.S. foreign policy -- something that, in fairness, Mr. Bush would also pursue. So what was legitimate in Mr. Gore's critique of Mr. Bush? It's the charge that the internationalism Mr. Bush offers often sounds like a we-will-do-whatever-we-want-because-we're-the-only-superpower-and-I-am-not-a-wimp-like-Clinton set of policies, which, if adopted at once, could be destabilizing and would have virtually no allied support. The best thing you can say is that Mr. Bush doesn't really mean some of this stuff. But what if he does?If it were his father, the former president, you know that he would do the prudent thing. But we don't know that with George W., and when you look at his own party's willingness to be led around by the fringe views of Jesse Helms, well, Mr. Gore is right to ask: Is George W. his father's son or his advisers' captive?But as for Mr. Gore, in his speech he called for a foreign policy of ''forward engagement'' -- addressing problems early before they become a crisis and doing so ''as close to the source of the problem as possible.'' Well, I can think of no problem more in need of such forward engagement than the U.S. embargo of Fidel Castro's Cuba, which has failed for 40 years to oust the Cuban dictator and, if continued, is only going to ensure that when Castro dies the Cuban economy collapses, civil war breaks out and thousands of Cubans sail for Miami. Fixing that policy means engaging the hard-line Miami Cubans, who want no change in policy, but as Mr. Gore showed in the Elian case, that sort of tough love is not his thing.Elian was not a one-day story. It was one of those moments when you get to see everyone's character: Attorney General Janet Reno stood her ground. Mr. Bush said what his advisers told him to say. And Mr. Gore tried to both exploit the Elian saga for political advantage and hide from it.In his speech, Mr. Gore decried ''protectionism and isolationism,'' but when union-led demonstrators were disrupting the World Trade Organization meetings in Seattle in the name of more protectionism, Mr. Gore was silent. What good is it to be for things in principle if you won't take them on in practice? I know Mr. Gore has cast tough votes before. I know he has to get elected. But the growing trend in the Clinton years was that the campaign never ends. This administration has not given a Sister Souljah speech to anyone in a long, long time.That's why the best you can say today about Governor Bush on foreign policy is that he doesn't really mean it, and won't do the wrong thing. He'll wise up. And the best you can say about Al Gore is that he really does mean it and will do the right thing. He'll stand up. But both still have something to prove.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,''This is the latest meaningless proposal from an administration desperately searching for a legacy that will endure after the evening news ends. Having already claimed credit for solving every problem under the sun, the Clinton-Gore team has apparently taken to espousing solutions in search of new problems.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Monday was Decision Day for many high school seniors choosing colleges, but it came and went without so much as a peep from the Bush campaign about the destinations of Gov. George W. Bush's twin 18-year-old daughters, Barbara and Jenna.How far from home would they be straying? The Texas governor's aides were silent. What factors had the girls' final selection hinged on? Mum was the word. Aides acknowledged that the information would probably trickle out soon enough, through an unguarded utterance by Mr. Bush or an offhand comment by an official at one of the schools. But for just a bit longer, the family wanted to try to preserve the girls' privacy.The Bush family has been remarkably successful at that, so much so that while Mr. Bush could become the next president and while his extended family is beginning to look an awful lot like a political dynasty, his two daughters are almost invisible, their faces unknown to 99.9 percent of voters outside Texas and their public sightings only slightly more frequent than Bigfoot's.''From the time he was elected governor, we've had a policy that the girls are not interviewed and not photographed,'' said Karen P. Hughes, the communications director for the Bush campaign and a senior adviser to Mr. Bush since 1994.Far from being out of the ordinary, the daughters' anonymity immediately recalls that of Chelsea Clinton during her father's first presidential campaign, in 1992, and is shared to a degree by the three younger Gore children. (The oldest, Karenna Gore Schiff, 26, has a public role as an adviser to her father's presidential campaign.)Mr. Bush has similarly benefited from news organizations' voluntary restraint. Austin is not so big a place, and there are reporters whose children -- or whose friends' children -- attend the same public high school from which Barbara and Jenna Bush will be graduating this month. But the fruits of that familiarity have not found their way onto television or into newspapers.Similarly, Mr. Bush trusts reporters on his campaign plane to be cognizant of, and to respect, his wishes that his daughters remain journalistically off-limits, and he thus talks somewhat freely about them on occasion and even mentioned, several times, the kinds of colleges each daughter was considering.The personal-biography section of Mr. Bush's Web site digresses to mention, ''Governor and Mrs. Bush have worked hard to protect their daughters' privacy. They attend public school in Austin but do not give interviews and only appear at public events if they want to.''In public, Mr. Bush walks a carefully but not always consistently drawn line. He sporadically delights audiences with a fleeting, vague riff on the agonies and ecstasies of fatherhood and repeatedly mentions that Barbara and Jenna go to a public high school. But he generally furnishes no more specifics about them than about the family's six-toed cat, Ernie.There are exceptions to this reticence, the most conspicuous one being a chapter of his autobiography, ''A Charge to Keep'' (William Morrow & Company, 1999), in which Mr. Bush discusses his support for the death penalty. He divulges that one daughter -- he does not say which -- told him over the dinner table that she disagrees with him.Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, have said repeatedly that they want Barbara and Jenna, fraternal twins who are the couple's only children, to be affected by their father's political celebrity as little as possible.And they behaved as teenagers typically do, bowing to the latest pop-cultural fashions and sometimes remarking on how unfashionable their father was. In interviews with Texas journalists in the past, Mrs. Bush bemoaned that the girls's television-watching habits, at least a few years ago, included ''Beverly Hills 90210'' and ''Melrose Place,'' and noted that they would sometimes stop their father before he walked out the door, questioning his choice of attire.Even as a governor's children, they were not constantly escorted or monitored by guards, but security around the entire family tightened earlier this year with the arrival of the Secret Service, much to the girls chagrin, an aide to Mr. Bush said.According to the aide and several of Mr. Bush's friends, the girls' low public profile reflects their own desires as much as their parents' efforts. For example, Barbara and Jenna Bush briefly considered accompanying their parents to the polls in Texas for the Republican primary; it was, after all, the first election cycle in which the girls were old enough to vote.One of Mr. Bush's advisers said Barbara and Jenna Bush had learned early on that even the most seemingly harmless exposure could yield accidental humiliation.About six years ago, when a television crew shot footage of the Bushes decorating their Christmas tree, the telephone rang and Mr. Bush joked that it might be a boy who liked Jenna. When the story was broadcast, it included both that comment and Jenna's mortified reaction.
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,Vice President Al Gore vowed to veto any measure prohibiting cities from suing gun manufacturers, while Gov. George W. Bush suggested he might support such a measure. Mr. Bush also cast the vice president as a candidate whose advocacy of more stringent restrictions on firearms was simply the latest fashion, not a matter of steadfast principle. A8Gore's Proposals on TeachersVice President Al Gore promised to spend billions to recruit new teachers and increase teachers' salaries, but only if the states and teachers' unions agreed that all new teachers meet rigorous national standards and only if hiring decisions are based on expertise, not seniority alone. A8
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,BUSH VOWS FIGHT IN CALIFORNIA -- On the second of what will amount to at least four swings through California this spring, Gov. George W. Bush insisted yesterday that he was determined to fight for the state's 54 electoral votes and would not repeat the actions of the last two Republican presidential nominees, who made an early show of interest in California and then effectively ceded it toward the end of the campaign. ''I intend to campaign all the way through November here,'' Mr. Bush said in Mission Viejo, where he visited a charter school. Although Mr. Bush rarely edges up to anything resembling a criticism of his father, former President George Bush, who lost his re-election bid in 1992, the Texas governor said on Wednesday that one reason Republicans had hit hard times in California was that the party's presidential nominees in 1992 and 1996 had abandoned any hope of winning the state. Frank Bruni (NYT)READ MY LIPS: NO SMIRK -- California was not the only place where Gov. George W. Bush discussed his father's presidential campaigns. In an ABC News interview to be broadcast today, he says his father seriously undermined his credibility by breaking the ''read my lips, no new taxes'' pledge that had helped him win the White House in 1988. The Texas governor, who himself has taken a no-new-taxes pledge, says the switch helped lead to his father's defeat by Bill Clinton. As for President Clinton, Mr. Bush sharply criticizes his affair with Monica S. Lewinsky. ''He and Mrs. Clinton have done a great job with their daughter, no question about it,'' Mr. Bush says. ''But Bill Clinton, unfortunately, in the last chapter of the 20th century, embarrassed our nation.''Mr. Bush gave Vice President Al Gore credit for being ''a loving husband and a good dad.'' But he says he is ''a little worried about a man who tends to stretch the truth in order to get ahead politically.''
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,Breaching the dams is bitterly opposed by many people as an assault on the area's agricultural economy, and the proposal has already emerged as a hot-button issue in the Northwest in this year's presidential race. Gov. George W. Bush of Texas vowed in the primary campaign here never to allow the dams to be breached, while Vice President Al Gore, part of an administration that is intensely debating the issue, has taken no public position.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Two Democratic senators today criticized Vice President Al Gore's approach to Social Security, saying his plan would make the retirement system dependent on general tax revenue.Mr. Kerrey recently met to discuss Social Security with Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the expected Republican presidential nomineee.Right after the three senators spoke, two other Democratic senators, Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota and Charles E. Schumer of New York, held their own news conference to criticize Mr. Bush's interest in including individual investment accounts as an element of overhauling Social Security.Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush advocate sharply different approaches to Social Security.Mr. Gore has put paying down the $3.5 trillion national debt at the center of his economic agenda. That would reduce the federal government's interest payments. He proposes to keep Social Security solvent through 2050 by allocating the interest savings to the retirement system.Mr. Bush is to speak next week on Social Security and include a call for putting some portion of payroll taxes into private accounts. Under this approach, part of the retirement benefit would be guaranteed and part would fluctuate with individual investment decisions.Mr. Moynihan and Mr. Kerrey were drawn into spelling out their differences with their party's presumptive presidential nominee by reporters. Mr. Moynihan branded the word ''privatization'' a ''scare word,'' and he and Mr. Kerrey said Mr. Gore's approach would in essence change the very nature of the retirement program.Asked about the commission today, Mr. Gore dismissed the idea, saying: ''These commissions are in the eye of the beholder. I disagree with them, and agree instead with the great majority of Democrats and Republicans in the Senate and the House who are not for privatization of Social Security.''Mr. Bush, campaigning in California, praised the three senators. ''I appreciate so very much the tone of their press conference,'' he said. ''This shouldn't be a partisan issue.''
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,''They wouldn't meet with us,'' said Stephen Jenkins, a coordinator for Make the Road by Walking, a Bushwick community group that was represented at the meeting. ''We met with a lower-level supervisor, and he said he would pass on our message to them. But we haven't heard from them. It's frustrating.''
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Jennifer French Bush, the daughter of Virginia Jones Bush of Old Saybrook, Conn., and William Clyde Bush of Bronxville, N.Y., was married yesterday to Thomas Mortimer Evans, the son of Wanda L. Plumer of Upper Marlboro, Md., and George H. Evans of Islesboro, Me. The Rev. Christopher H. Neely, a United Methodist minister, performed the ceremony at Pink Sands, a resort in Dunmore Town, Harbour Island, the Bahamas.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,MAY 16 -- A dinner at the Ellis Island Immigration Museum with former President and Mrs. George Bush will raise money for AmeriCares, the humanitarian aid and disaster relief organization. The evening begins with a cocktail reception at 6:30, with dinner and a performance by the United Nations International School Concert Choir to follow at 7:30. Ferries to Ellis Island leave from Battery Park beginning at 6. Tickets, $1,000, from (203) 972-5510.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Praise for the cardinal came from President Clinton, Gov. George E. Pataki, the Rev. Billy Graham, the presidential rivals Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and Vice President Al Gore, the Senate rivals Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Hillary Rodham Clinton, United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan and many others. In general they were much the same, with phrases about the cardinal's ''eloquent voice,'' and ''courage, selflessness and devotion to duty.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,2 Democrats Fault a Gore PlanTwo Democratic senators, Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, criticized Vice President Al Gore's approach to Social Security, saying his plan would make the system dependent on general tax revenue. A22
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Mr. Clinton addressed high school students at City Academy here as part of a two-day tour of public schools in Kentucky, Iowa, Minnesota and Ohio, in which he is pushing his own education proposals and those of Vice President Al Gore, the likely Democratic presidential candidate.Both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore have been pushing plans that would punish schools that are given more money but continue to fail, in response to Republican criticism that they have poured more and more money into education programs without insisting on results.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Some other bad early averages of players who aren't new to their teams: Tony Clark, .155; Rey Ordonez, .179; Ray Lankford, .187; Homer Bush, .192; Jose Offerman, .198; Rickey Henderson, .203; Cliff Floyd, .203; and Eric Karros, .204.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,In an unusual display of public dissension, some Liberal Party members have said in recent days that they would oppose backing Mr. Giuliani, saying it would be a betrayal of the party's philosophy to send another Republican to the Senate. And if Mr. Harding backs Mr. Giuliani, he risks losing a presidential candidate: Mrs. Clinton's aides have been pushing Vice President Al Gore to decline the Liberal Party line if the party backs Mr. Giuliani.Mr. Gore's aides said yesterday that he might accede to Mrs. Clinton's request. They said he would put off the decision as long as possible, giving him time to assess whether he needs the Liberal Party to win in New York (right now, his aides think he does not), as well as to see whether Mr. Giuliani stays in the race.Peter Ragone, a spokesman for Mr. Gore's campaign, said that the vice president was now beginning a closer look at the thicket of independent parties in New York, and that he would ''consider the endorsement'' of any party that shared his views. However, Mr. Ragone added, ''the vice president is a strong supporter of Hillary Clinton, and our campaign will do everything we can to elect her the next senator from New York.''''What he did today -- with Hillary, no less -- they both went and knelt at the altar of Ray Harding, who in fact gave us Bella Abzug, John Lindsay and Mario Cuomo,'' Mr. Long said. ''That sends a clear signal to the world that he wants to run with Al Gore, he wants to keep the Liberal tradition, and I don't know who the real Giuliani is.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Three weeks before a closely watched vote in Congress on trade relations with China, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and his advisers are making sure to remind Capitol Hill Republicans of his support for the bill and have not ruled out his calling undecided House Republicans.Aides said Mr. Bush was planning to give a speech the week before the House vote, which is expected between May 22 and Memorial Day, to explain anew why he feels so strongly about facilitating trade between the United States and China.''I'll speak out about it,'' Mr. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said aboard his campaign plane Wednesday afternoon, referring to the vote.Asked if he would phone individual Republicans who were undecided, Mr. Bush first said he doubted it, then added, ''I shouldn't say categorically no.''Several aides to Mr. Bush said the possibility of such calls had been discussed by Republican officials on Capitol Hill and some of the governor's advisers in Austin, Tex., but that nothing had been decided.But one aide to Mr. Bush said the governor was wary of doing anything, on any issue, that resembled outright lobbying, because such actions might appear inappropriate.It could work to Mr. Bush's advantage to sway them, because it would demonstrate that his calls for more open trade with China have not fallen on deaf ears in his own party. Moreover, it would show he can exert leadership over Republicans and promote cohesiveness among them.But Mr. Bush has almost equal reason not to push too hard. Should the measure fail, its loss would owe more to Democratic opposition than Republican and would give Mr. Bush another issue with which to beat Vice President Al Gore, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, who also supports it.Mr. Bush could argue that the Clinton administration -- and by extension Mr. Gore -- could not win enough Congressional cooperation to pass any meaningful legislation, political analysts said.Indeed, discussing the vote aboard his campaign jet, Mr. Bush tried to shift the topic from his plans to those of Mr. Gore. Referring to telephoning members of Congress, Mr. Bush said: ''The interesting question is, Will Vice President Gore? Because it's his administration that's trying to get the bill through.''Several House Republican aides said that Mr. Bush would probably not be asked to approach individual Republicans, because House Republicans already knew where the governor stood on the issue and would have factored that into their deliberations.''Not one member has said, 'Is Governor Bush with us? I could use a call' '' one House aide said. ''But if a member says it would be really helpful to get a call from Governor Bush, we'd ask him, and we're confident he'd say yes.''Several House Republican aides said that Mr. Bush would probably not be asked to approach individual Republicans, because House Republicans already knew where the governor stood on the issue.For months along the campaign trail, Mr. Bush has declared his support for permanent normalized trade relations with China.Last week, Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's chief foreign policy adviser, discussed the issue with House and Senate Republicans, but she said today that she did not meet specifically with undecided Republicans or argue Mr. Bush's position.
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,For example, Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore both want to attract the independents who supported Senator John McCain. Why not ask Mr. McCain if he would be interested in serving as secretary of defense? He is passionate about improving the lot of the military.
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,Vice President Al Gore promised today to spend billions of dollars to recruit new teachers and increase teachers' salaries, but only if the states and teachers' unions agreed that all new teachers meet rigorous national standards and only if hiring decisions are based on expertise, not seniority alone.''If I am entrusted with the presidency, I will ensure that there is a fully qualified, well-trained teacher in every single classroom, everywhere in this nation, before the next four years is out,'' Mr. Gore said in a speech here to the Michigan Education Association.Education ranks near the top of voter concerns, especially in important states like Michigan, where Mr. Gore held his fourth ''school day'' today, spending all day at the high school in nearby Holt.The speech was yet another effort by Mr. Gore to spell out the details of his education plan, which would devote $115 billion to education over 10 years.Education is an area to which Mr. Gore's Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, has devoted considerable attention in hopes of wooing swing voters. Polls show Mr. Bush has been successful in this effort. The Gore campaign is countering Mr. Bush's initiatives with proposals that do not just allocate federal money but also make demands of teachers and school districts.Mr. Gore proposes requiring teachers to have majored in their subject area in college or to pass a competency test. He would reward outstanding teachers and help schools improve or remove bad teachers quickly, within the academic year as opposed to the three years that removal can take now, aides said.''While we absolutely must respect due process,'' Mr. Gore said, ''we have to put an end to endless delays in removing those few teachers who really do need to be removed.''For years teacher testing and efforts to diminish hiring by seniority have been strongly resisted by teachers' unions. Mr. Gore's aides hoped that his speech today would be seen as a daring, principled stand that would demonstrate that he did not pander to potent supporters like the teachers' unions or just blow with the political winds.Gregory King, a spokesman for Sandra Feldman, the president of the federation, said Mr. Gore consulted with Ms. Feldman on his proposals. She was heartened, Mr. King said, that Mr. Gore would cede some decisions on teacher hiring to ''principals working with teams of teachers, and not just principals.''Mary Elizabeth Teasley, the director of government relations for the nation's largest teachers' union, the National Education Association, said her union was comfortable with Mr. Gore's suggestion that seniority not be the only criterion in teacher hiring. She emphasized, however, that Mr. Gore was not dismissing seniority as a qualification.Mr. Gore has been trying to demonstrate his commitment to education in multiple ways, including by spending a full day at a school somewhere in the country every week or so. He spent today at Holt High after staying overnight at the home of Margot Strong, a computer teacher, and her husband, Jay, who teaches first grade. Mr. Gore arrived at their house after midnight on Thursday night and stayed up to watch on television four of the five overtime periods in the National Hockey League playoff game between the Philadelphia Flyers and the Pittsburgh Penguins.In an interview with the school newspaper, Mr. Gore was asked about abortion. He said he believed it was up to a woman to decide what to do, but he said he also believed in abstinence.
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,As if to ratify Mr. Clinton's triumph, The Washington Post ran a front-page headline on Monday: '' 'Clinton Fatigue' Yields to Nostalgia.'' The Post cited polls showing that not only would Democrats vastly prefer Mr. Clinton to Al Gore as a candidate this year but that in a recent match-up the president pulled even with George W. Bush nationwide. Granted, this country has a short memory, but isn't Bill Clinton the same guy who was impeached and tried only 15 months ago? It's almost an insult to call him the comeback kid. He's had more comebacks than Elizabeth Taylor, Liza Minnelli and Richard Nixon combined.My first sighting of conspicuous Republican nostalgia for Mr. Clinton was in March, when Ben Stein, the former Nixon speechwriter and host of TV's ''Win Ben Stein's Money,'' praised the president in USA Today for showing ''a lot of heart'' by sending top administration officials to the funeral of his father, the G.O.P. economist Herbert Stein. Ben Stein dislikes Mr. Clinton, writes for the Clinton-bashing journal American Spectator and is solidly behind Mr. Bush. And yet he had this to say over the phone this week: ''I will miss Clinton's humanity like I miss Nixon's humanity. You know a person is a person by his failings, and Clinton has a lot of failings. Without that human touch, you lose an important ability to connect with the body politic. Two machines are running to replace him -- the Gore machine, in which everything is calculated and calibrated, and the Bush machine, which is even more so. I don't like the idea of being governed by a machine. I like being governed by someone who has as many failings as I do.''Mr. Hammond is ready to go with his impersonation of Al Gore -- possibly tonight -- but is mindful of the vast difference between the two men. ''Clinton only shows you what he wants you to see,'' he says. ''Gore shows you what he wants to show you and everything else. You see the puppet and the puppetmaster. You see the ventriloquist's mouth move. The poor guy is trying too hard. So much preparation, so earnest, so much fumbling and stumbling. He should go out and say I can't act, I can't dance -- or nothing -- but I really want to be president.''This shortfall makes it unlikely that Clinton nostalgia will automatically benefit Mr. Gore come fall. If anything, the closest heir to Mr. Clinton so far is Mr. Bush. The president indicated as much in his stand-up routine, when he joked that the Texas governor had hijacked his old Dick Morris campaign strategy of ''moving toward the political center, distancing himself from his own party [and] stealing ideas from the other party.'' The parallels don't end there, or with the unsubstantiated drug rumors that have stalked both men without ever denting their political fortunes.In the '92 campaign, Mr. Clinton said that ''the most important thing'' he had accomplished as governor of Arkansas was improving education -- a claim no more borne out by Arkansas's dismal rankings in students' test scores than are Mr. Bush's hyperbolic claims for Texas. Mr. Bush's ''compassionate conservatism'' -- in which the federal government plays bite-sized roles in helping to feel and soothe Americans' pain -- lifts specific ideas from Mr. Clinton's New Democrat policies. Both men also have in common the repellent trait of advertising their toughness on crime by savage brandishing of the death penalty as governors: Mr. Clinton refused clemency to the brain-damaged Rickey Ray Rector; Mr. Bush denied clemency to Karla Faye Tucker and then mocked her in a Talk magazine interview with Tucker Carlson.This isn't to say that Mr. Bush is remotely in the Clinton league as entertainer in chief; no one is. Reading up for his game show on presidents who ''were grossly overweight, got drunk and went to all-night parties,'' Ben Stein ruefully observed, ''Clinton will be the last of the rollicking over-the-top characters for the foreseeable future.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,But the grades have also been used for more drastic measures. Florida legislators voted to give private-school vouchers to students at schools that receive F's for two years out of four. the state is appealing a court decision that ruled the vouchers, but not the grading, unconstitutional. In a speech outlining his presidential campaign pledges on education, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas proposed grading all schools and stripping some federal financing from those that received low grades for three years.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,The ''it'' was, perhaps, the most uncomfortable moment of political humor of the television season. After weeks of goading by Mr. Letterman, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas agreed to appear by satellite on his show, an encounter that was, by most assessments, a disaster for the Republican presidential candidate. Mr. Bush, hampered by the split-second time delay and projecting an air of being led on a forced march, offered one lame quip after another, including a pun about Mr. Letterman's recent heart operation so strained that it left the host staring, mortified, into the camera.Having a serious impact on real events is, of course, the last thing on the minds of most of the writers and performers of political satire on television. ''I just want the politicians and the people who watch our show to know that this is a place where the buck honestly stops,'' said Bill Maher, the no-nonsense host of ''Politically Incorrect,'' ABC's freewheeling after-hours talkfest. Still, as the Bush appearance on ''Letterman'' illustrates, political comedy relies ever more intensively on the willing (and in some instances unwitting) participation of actual officeholders and officeseekers.He is aware, though, that his blunt style has power. Asked, for instance, if he had invited Mr. Bush on his show, Mr. Maher laughed at the improbability of such an appearance. ''I've been so hard on him,'' he said. (He added that he was not a fan of Vice President Al Gore, either.)IT may be just as well that Mr. Bush steers clear of the program, given his performance on ''Letterman,'' a show that has become a kind of political proving ground. Gerard Mulligan, a longtime staff writer, said that Mr. Letterman ''discovered inadvertently'' just how gravely candidates respond to his comic denunciations. For weeks, he complained on the air about Hillary Rodham Clinton's refusal to appear on the show after announcing her campaign for the Senate seat from New York.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Being funny at the annual dinners of the Alfalfa Club, the Gridiron Club, and the associations of White House and broadcast correspondents, has become serious business in Washington, and Mr. Katz is a regular writer on the circuit. ''A good joke will last a week,'' said Mr. Katz, who also helped write Vice President Al Gore's speech at this year's Gridiron dinner. ''And a bad joke will appear in their obituary.''Self-deprecation was also the centerpiece of Vice President Gore's successful monologues at the Gridiron dinner, in 1994, 1997 and last March. At the 1994 dinner, Mr. Gore made fun of his reputation for stiffness by being wheeled into the dais on a handcart. This year, he told the assembled journalists that ''there are some things I won't do to become president. I won't hold a press conference.'' He also drew roars by asking plaintively: ''This isn't a fund-raiser, is it?''But he did not miss a chance to lampoon his presumed Republican rival for the presidency, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, who he said ''thinks fettuccine Alfredo is the Italian prime minister.''In 1993, Mr. Katz wrote a speech for Madeleine K. Albright, who was then the United States ambassador to the United Nations, that sparked laughter from President Clinton. He has since written for Mr. Clinton, Mr. Gore and Hillary Rodham Clinton.Mr. Gore has improved his timing and delivery in recent years, but can still be a bit rigid. Mr. Bush has yet to make a major Washington appearance as a humorist (he did a short speech at the Alfalfa Club in 1998) but his remarks did draw a few laughs at a recent Republican fund-raising dinner. His appearance on the Letterman show in March, however, drew chilly reviews.
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000, 'Love Bug' Bites Bush Campaign  The computer ``love bug'' took a big bite out of the e-mail system at George W. Bush's campaign headquarters _ and made a pass at Al Gore's, too.  The system in Bush's Austin, Texas, headquarters was shut down after computers became infected late Thursday. That meant no sending out scheduling information or news releases from the Republican presidential contender.  Gore's Tennessee headquarters was luckier in dealing with the computer virus. Spokesman Doug Hattaway said, ``Somebody on our staff opened up a message, but it turns out the kind of server we have was not affected.'' 
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,''Bowling Alone'' touched a public nerve and became a metaphor for a much larger national malaise. Mr. Putnam suddenly found himself profiled in People magazine. He appeared on talk shows, and President Clinton invited him to Camp David. Most recently both Al Gore and George W. Bush have tapped him for advice, or their aides have.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,A May 2 letter writer presumes to speak for ''middle-of-the-road gays'' who ''resent being taken for granted by the Democratic Party'' and want a ''return to decency, honesty and virtue in the White House,'' even if this means voting for George W. Bush. My middle-of-the-road gay experience is very different from his.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,There's plenty of work to be done in Hartford, no doubt about it. But one could counter Mr. McEnroe's list with one equally convincing in its positive tone. Among the items on such a list might be Hartford's recent recapture of its glorious riverfront, the additions under way at the Bushnell Theater and the city's downtown library as well as the Learning Corridor project, which has already put a fresh face on the city's South End.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Wilderness Trails, Lewa Downs, Kenya, is represented by Bush Homes of East Africa in Nairobi, (254-2) 571661, fax (254-2) 571665; www.bush-homes.co.ke. Rates start at $660 a night for two in a room, including meals, table wine, beer and activities.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Back in the Bush era, when Americans feared that the Japanese might take over, Rapaille was summoned by a corporate sponsor to find out how the United States could adapt Asian high-efficiency management concepts, like ''do it right the first time.''''Bill Clinton fascinates me,'' he said. ''Americans loved him. Why? Because Clinton made mistakes. It means he was learning something and getting better.'' Rapaille said that in the late 80's, Lee Atwater, then working for George Bush p re, hired him to do an archetype study of the presidency. Though financing ran out before Rapaille could complete his work, he was able to gather useful material in the word-association sessions. Participants compared the chief executive to a ''movie character''; they said he could ''make people see things.'' From this, Rapaille was able to identify the core emotional nubbin. Fatherhood? Celebration? Nationalism? No, no. The presidency is: ''cheap entertainment.''''Gore is boring,'' Rapaille said. ''This is a real problem. Bush is not very intelligent. But then, who cares? Americans have never been impressed by intellectuals.'' So Bush's mediocre mind is not nearly the handicap that Gore's leaden personality is. Rapaille gives Bush the edge, but neither one of them interests him much. He openly pines for Bill Clinton the icon (not the politician). Mistakes weren't Clinton's only asset. America's code, according to Rapaille, is built around ''hope.'' That's why Clinton's slogan in 1992 ''was simply brilliant,'' Rapaille said. ''I still believe in a place called ''hope.''' He's almost a genius.'' Clinton had instinctively hit the grand slam of presidential codes. Mistakes. Cheap Entertainment. Hope.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,We applaud the support for expanding drug and alcohol treatment expressed by Al Gore and George W. Bush (news article, May 3).
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Saturday's telecast of the Kentucky Derby marked the end of a long run for ABC, which had been the Triple Crown network for many years. Next year the Derby will move to NBC as part of a five-year Triple Crown package. Race officials hope the switch will provide more promotion and exposure for the Derby, which has had declining ratings. The Derby, however, falls in the middle of the National Basketball Association playoffs, which NBC also televises. Churchill Downs officials realize their telecast may be sandwiched between N.B.A. games -- for better or worse. . . . A former president and a presidential candidate were Derby guests of WILLIAM FARISH, the Churchill Downs president. Former President GEORGE BUSH and his son Gov. GEORGE W. BUSH of Texas joined Farish, a friend of the Bushes. The former president had been to the Derby before; his son made his first visit.
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,Vice President Al Gore continued his intensive assault against Gov. George W. Bush's policies today, saying his Republican rival had been inordinately influenced by the National Rifle Association and had proposed an inadequate health care plan that ''offers too little for too few at the expense of too many.''But when asked later by reporters about Mr. Bush's comments that Mr. Gore's attacks were having a corrosive influence on the political process, Mr. Gore refused to respond directly, saying the nation deserved a vigorous debate on the issues.Mr. Gore had intended to deliver a health care speech here, since he was addressing the inaugural meeting of the Association of Health Care Journalists, at Northwestern University Memorial Hospital.But his aides said he had been captivated by reports in the morning newspapers that suggested that the gun lobby was thrilled at the prospect of a Bush presidency, and Mr. Gore rewrote his speech as he flew here this morning from Washington to draw attention to those reports.The New York Times reported that gun manufacturers had broken off settlement talks with 31 cities and counties in hopes that a Bush administration would be more sympathetic than the Clinton administration has been. And The Washington Post reported that Kayne Robinson, first vice president of the N.R.A., had said in a speech to members in February that if Mr. Bush was elected, the gun lobby would expect to have ''a president where we work out of their office.''Handgun Control Inc., a lobbying group, began running a 30-second television commercial today that uses videotape of the speech and attacks Mr. Bush as a pawn of the National Rifle Association.In his speech, Mr. Gore said, ''Governor Bush has convinced the N.R.A. that he wants to take the gun lobbyists out of the lobby and put them right into the Oval Office.''Mr. Gore's point was that gun violence, apart from killing people, was straining the nation's health care system, to the tune of $2.3 billion annually, according to the Journal of the American Medical Association, and that Mr. Bush was so deeply in the pocket of the gun lobby that he could not recognize this problem.Mr. Bush dismissed those accusations. ''I make my positions on what I think is right,'' he said at a news conference in Orange County, Calif. ''If this is an attempt by my opponent to frighten people, I'm not going to let that happen.''Asked about Mr. Robinson's speech, Mr. Bush said: ''I don't want to disappoint the man, but I'll be setting up shop in the White House. It'll be my office. I'll make the decision as to what goes on in the White House.''Repeating an accusation he has made before, Mr. Bush said: ''I want to say something: I've never been a member of the N.R.A. I think Al Gore's been a member of the N.R.A., if I'm not mistaken.''This accusation momentarily befuddled both campaigns, neither of which could find evidence that Mr. Gore had belonged to the gun lobby. Scott McClellan, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said the governor might have been referring to a Time magazine article this year that quoted an N.R.A. official as saying Mr. Gore, who represented rural Tennessee in Congress, had once been so opposed to gun control that he could have been the poster boy for it.Mr. McClellan said of Mr. Gore, ''I guess he never got around to paying his dues.''Asked whether Mr. Bush had misspoken, Mr. McClellan said, ''I'll leave it at that.''Chris Lehane, a spokesman for Mr. Gore, said: ''The campaign has no record of Al Gore being a member of the N.R.A.''Gore aides said Mr. Gore might have inadvertently become a member through a magazine subscription or some other organization.''The burden of proof is on Bush,'' Mr. Lehane said. ''He ought to be held to the same standards on distortions that you guys are holding the Gore campaign to.''Mr. Bush again said Mr. Gore was distorting his record and ''saying things that simply are not true.''''It's amazing that a person running for president of the United States would look people in the eye and say I've never submitted budgets as governor and continue to say so when I did,'' Mr. Bush said.At a news conference, Mr. Gore declined to respond to Mr. Bush's accusations that he was not being factual. But the vice president, who has said Mr. Bush has never put together a real budget, brought that up again. He said he happened to have in his pocket what he said was a copy of Mr. Bush's 1995 budget. He handed it to a reporter, saying, ''If you think that's a budget, then maybe I can convince you it's a duck.''
2000-05-05T05:00:00+0000,It has become the daily tit for tat of the presidential contest. Vice President Al Gore calls Gov. George W. Bush reckless, irresponsible, profligate or arrogant. And Mr. Bush calmly replies that the vice president is like an addict when it comes to distorting the truth.If this kind of acrid exchange seems vaguely familiar, there is good reason: During the Democratic primary campaign, Mr. Gore relentlessly attacked the proposals of former Senator Bill Bradley as risky and expensive. And Mr. Bradley calmly replied that the vice president was addicted to distorting the truth.Mr. Gore's harshly aggressive strategy worked just fine in the primaries, where Democratic voters who had initially seemed interested in Mr. Bradley abandoned him in droves. But the vice president is now engaged in a very different race against a very different opponent, who is considered quite adept at thrust-and-parry politics, and the question is, Can it work again?Many people have their doubts. Though it may seem logical for Mr. Gore to try to bathe his less well known opponent in a negative light, the strategy carries clear risks, say independent analysts and some Democrats as well.For one thing, Mr. Gore is now playing to an audience very different from that of the primary campaign. Back then he was talking to largely sympathetic crowds of Democrats. Now he must court swing voters who are likely to be more skeptical of his credibility and less accepting of his attacks on Mr. Bush. Taken too far, the attacks could make him appear unpleasant, overly partisan, mean-spirited and untrustworthy to the very independent and crossover voters he is courting.Even some Democrats seem to think that Mr. Gore's attacks occasionally go over the top. On Wednesday, Mr. Gore accused Mr. Bush of devising a ''secret'' Social Security ''privatization'' plan that would bankrupt the system. Today Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat who supports investing some of the Social Security trust fund in private markets, took issue with the word ''privatization.''Another danger for Mr. Gore is that voters will perceive his criticisms of Mr. Bush as personal. Mr. Gore's aides argue that his attacks are aimed solely at Mr. Bush's record and proposals. (Today alone, the vice president blasted Mr. Bush's positions on the census, managed care and gun control.)But the adjectives the vice president has used in describing Mr. Bush's policies -- ''reckless,'' ''risky,'' ''irresponsible,'' ''smug,'' ''arrogant,'' ''noticeably blank'' -- also seem intended to raise questions about the governor's character, intellect and competence, many analysts say.They note that Mr. Gore used similarly loaded words against Mr. Bradley, suggesting that he was an aloof elitist who viewed politics as ''an intellectual exercise.'' The Gore campaign seems to be trying to exploit the opposite with Mr. Bush, who, unlike Mr. Bradley, a Rhodes scholar, is viewed by his critics as lacking intellectual depth on complex issues, particularly foreign affairs.Mr. Gore said today that he was not particularly worried that he might be creating negative impressions among voters.And he defended his recent use of the words ''smug'' and ''arrogant,'' turning away a suggestion that they had been meant to convey something about Mr. Bush's character.''They're a commentary on the assumption that is at the heart of his campaign: that you as journalists and the American people as voters are not entitled to know the details of his private secret plan to privatize Social Security,'' Mr. Gore said.Democratic strategists argue that Mr. Gore may have little choice but to attack so vigorously and so early in the campaign, as he did against Mr. Bradley. For one thing, he is trailing Mr. Bush, although by small margins, in most polls, including those in customarily Democratic states like Washington and West Virginia. And because he is so well known, many voters already hold relatively fixed opinions of him, as many bad as good, most polls show.In contrast, Mr. Bush, despite his famous name, remains something of a mystery to voters outside Texas. So Mr. Gore, the reasoning goes, needs to define his rival as a risky, out-of-the-mainstream alternative. That was the very strategy that Mr. Bush's father, also a two-term vice president at the time, used with great success 12 years ago against another governor running for president, Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts.''If you become viewed as a risk, as Michael Dukakis was in 1988, it is a very tough road to get back from,'' said Susan Estrich, who managed Mr. Dukakis's campaign. ''If Al Gore can raise questions about Bush, Bush may never get off the ground. So Gore will just keep doing it.''But Ms. Estrich praised Mr. Bush's ability to roll with Mr. Gore's punches and, in the process, make him seem like a negative politician. ''It seems to be working,'' she said of the governor's approach. ''He's up.''In adopting Mr. Bradley's strategy of calling Mr. Gore dishonest, Bush aides have also appropriated one of Mr. Bradley's sharpest debate lines, which they often strip across news releases: ''Why should we believe you would tell the truth as president if you don't tell the truth as a candidate?''But Mr. Bush is also a candidate far different from Mr. Bradley, with a campaign quicker in its responses to the vice president's blasts. On Tuesday, for instance, Mr. Gore asserted that criminal recidivism rates in Texas had increased significantly during the Bush administration; within hours, Mr. Bush's press office had issued its own statistics rebutting the charge. Mr. Bradley's campaign sometimes let days go by before responding to attacks.And on Wednesday, after Mr. Gore's Social Security attack, Mr. Bush spent much of a flight to California giving reporters a spirited, point-by-point response to many of Mr. Gore's recent accusations.That high-altitude news conference underscored what many Republicans say are Mr. Bush's greatest strengths as a campaigner: his sunny persona, his humor and his ability to cloak tart retorts in genial language. Those traits, Republicans say, make Mr. Gore seem all the more stiff and mean-spirited by comparison.''By going into attack mode so early, and by repeating this mantra that everything Bush proposes is a risky scheme, Al Gore plays into George Bush's hands on the personality comparison,'' said Q. Whitfield Ayres, a Republican pollster. ''George Bush comes across in that case as a likable, decent guy, and Al Gore comes across as a whining, yapping little dog.''Yet there is a certain logic, some analysts say, to Mr. Gore's efforts at harshly undermining Mr. Bush, and doing so sooner rather than later.''Gore didn't stop Bradley's forward momentum overnight,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the nonpartisan Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. ''You have to lay the groundwork.''Some Strong Words About Bush''In recent weeks Vice President Al Gore has used a variety of derisive words, including ''risky,'' ''irresponsible,'' ''smug'' and ''reckless,'' to characterize the proposals of Gov. George W. Bush. Here is a sampling.MARCH 16 -- ''Governor Bush's tax scheme is so risky, so reckless, that just yesterday the Republican-controlled House of Representatives, given an opportunity to vote for it, turned it down, turned the other way, said, 'We don't want to even cast a vote on that thing.' ''APRIL 30 -- ''Just this past week, Governor Bush used his brief meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Ivanov to issue a warning that his intention would be to build and deploy a global Star Wars system that he believes could defend the U.S. and all our allies against any missile launch from any source. In the 1990's, most serious analysts took a look at the implausibility of this endeavor, the fantastical price that our taxpayers would be expected to pay and the dangerously destabilizing consequences of traveling down that path and rejected this notion. Governor Bush wishes to return to it, and chose the worst possible venue in which to launch, for lack of a better phrase, his risky foreign policy scheme.''MAY 3 -- ''How does the Bush plan propose to deal with the bankruptcy of Social Security that his privatization scheme would cause? He doesn't even bother to provide an answer. He just smiles and goes on with the smug assumption that there's no need to share with you the details of what he wants to do.''
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Speculation has been especially intense since Gov. George W. Bush of Texas raised the possibility that he might choose Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania as a running mate. Not only does Mr. Ridge hail from an important battleground state with 23 electoral votes, but he also happens to be a close friend.Still, whenever Governor Ridge's name comes up, the point is almost always made that unlike Governor Bush, Governor Ridge favors abortion rights, hardly something that will endear him to the powerful Republican right. No matter, Governor Bush has said time and again, his friend merits consideration as a top prospect.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Although the spotlight has shifted to Vice President Al Gore and Hillary Rodham Clinton, prominent Democrats portray Mr. Clinton's role as that of an enormously valuable Strategist in Chief. They describe him as a sponge for absorbing political statistics -- a skill that is all the more enhanced because he has run twice in all 435 Congressional districts. And he willingly brings his well-honed political instincts to bear while exerting the power of the presidency to elect Democrats.Mr. Clinton has been seeking election or re-election since 1974, when he was defeated in a race for Congress. And the president's closest advisers say that although he is no longer running himself, his passion for electoral politics has never receded. They also cite another, more personal, reason for Mr. Clinton's deep involvement: he wants to burnish his own legacy with the election of Mr. Gore to succeed him, the installation of Mrs. Clinton as senator from New York and the return of the House to Democratic control.The president is particularly engrossed in the first lady's race, and to a lesser degree in Mr. Gore's. But his involvement in campaigns from coast to coast is extraordinary.He suggested that Mr. Gore not write off North Carolina in November, even though Mr. Clinton lost the state twice. If the Gore campaign takes that advice, it may cause the Bush campaign to rethink its own electoral tactics.Others who have talked politics with Mr. Clinton said he was preoccupied with the need for Democrats to win the loyalty of Hispanic voters. They said he had even spoken in detail about the importance of married Protestants. And, they said, he was particularly intrigued by contests in Michigan, New Jersey and Florida, where Mr. Gore has been pressing his campaign amid the tumult over the administration's handling of the Elian Gonzalez case.Mr. Clinton still convenes political meetings twice a month or so in the ornate Yellow Oval Room in the White House family quarters. The sessions are not as pressing as they were when they were held weekly before the 1996 campaign, and the group of participants, which often numbers close to two dozen, is usually larger than the more exclusive club of the past. Mr. Gore does not attend anymore.Participants at the group's most recent meeting, in April, recalled that Mr. Clinton said he wanted to accept invitations to speak at college graduations in areas with high concentrations of minorities, like Shiprock, N.M., where he thought his appearance would help spur interest in Mr. Gore's campaign.James Carville, an architect of Mr. Clinton's victory in 1992, said of the president: ''If he calls me it would be to chat about Gore and Hillary. But I've had him tell me ideas for brochures in Senate races. He's a rare combination of somebody who's got the brains and the gut.''Asked how often he takes advice from Mr. Clinton, Tony Coelho, Mr. Gore's campaign chairman, said: ''I'm not going to go there.''
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,WEIGHING BUDGET PROPOSALS -- Gov. George W. Bush of Texas began a news conference in San Diego yesterday with some heavy lifting: he waved two thick books that represented budget proposals he had sent to the Texas Legislature in 1997 and 1999, and he lit into Vice President Al Gore anew for suggesting that he did not produce such extensive spending blueprints. The books in his hand, Mr. Bush said, proved otherwise. Only the day before, Mr. Gore had pulled from his pocket a three-page document that he said was a copy of Mr. Bush's 1995 budget, telling a reporter that ''if you think that's a budget, then maybe I can convince you it's a duck.'' Mr. Bush turned to examples from later years and said he was wishing fervently for a campaign ''not full of hyperbole and distortion.'' Frank Bruni (NYT)LEADING THE RACE FOR NO. 2 -- Gov. George W. Bush and Vice President Al Gore remain tight-lipped about running mates, but an NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll has found that most voters have already made up their minds. Among Republicans and independents, 40 percent want Mr. Bush to pick Gen. Colin L. Powell, the retired chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 20 percent favor Senator John McCain of Arizona and 15 percent favor Elizabeth Dole, the former secretary of labor. Among Democrats and independents, 33 percent want Mr. Gore to pick former Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey and 18 percent favor Senator Dianne Feinstein of California. The poll surveyed 1,003 registered voters from April 29 to May 1 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. (NYT)
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Vice President Al Gore went on the offensive again and again last week, using a series of campaign appearances across the country not only to advance his own policy initiatives, but to sow suspicion about the goals of his presumed opponent in the general election, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.''Maybe he would pick Charlton Heston as the next surgeon general,'' Mr. Gore said in Chicago, referring to the financial backing Republicans are getting from the National Rifle Association, whose president is Mr. Heston.Mr. Gore's hammering away was a leading indicator of a new, more aggressive phase of the campaign. The retreat of Elian Gonzalez with his father to a Maryland estate seems to have opened up space again on America's front page for campaign machinations, much of them testier. In California, a conservative group, Shape the Debate, has begun running anti-Gore commercials; last week, Handgun Control introduced a spot that said Mr. Bush had signed a law that allows concealed guns in churches and amusement parks.The ammunition for Mr. Gore's attack was provided on Wednesday, when it was disclosed that the nation's gun companies had broken off settlement talks with 31 municipalities across the nation over lawsuits relating to gun violence, in hopes Mr. Bush would win the presidency and usher in a more favorable environment. (In other signs of the changing environment, a panel of Republicans proposed altering the current primary system, to allow only smaller states to vote first.)Mr. Bush, meanwhile, professed to be unfazed by Mr. Gore's jabs, although he couldn't help expressing some disgust. ''Totally pathetic,'' Mr. Bush said to a reporter after being informed that Mr. Gore tells Hispanic audiences that he had hoped his second grandchild would be born on Cinco de Mayo. PETER MARKS
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Instead of trying to write bipartisan legislation, Republicans and Democrats have seized the debate to showcase their opposing remedies for ailing schools. The fact that Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas have turned education into a signature issue has only served to infuse this year's Senate debate with partisan rancor.
2000-05-06T05:00:00+0000,The lines that divide the presidential candidates on the issue of gun control came into sharper focus today, as Vice President Al Gore vowed to veto any measure prohibiting cities from suing gun manufacturers and Gov. George W. Bush suggested he might support it.Gun manufacturers have been lobbying Federal lawmakers for such legislation; Mr. Gore, in an interview today, pledged to block that effort and questioned whether Mr. Bush would do likewise.''I challenge Governor Bush to make the same pledge,'' Mr. Gore said in an interview with Political Points, the Webcast of The New York Times and ABC News. ''Will he veto any bill that lets gun manufacturers off the hook? Will he fight for the gun industry or for America's families?''When Mr. Bush was asked about that at a subsequent news conference here, he said, ''It depends on what's in the legislation.''Mr. Bush was referring to a 1999 law that required lawsuits against gun makers to be filed, on behalf of Texas cities or counties, by the state attorney general, who might or might not support that course of action. The measure was similar to ones supported by other Republican governors, and reflected their general push to curb civil litigation in an array of areas.The divergent statements of Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush continued an often tense back-and-forth over gun control that has lasted several days and signaled the potential potency of the issue in the 2000 elections. Each candidate has been trying to cast doubt on his opponent's commitment to gun control, and each has been trying to tar the other by linking him to the National Rifle Association.At his news conference, Mr. Bush said that Mr. Gore had a voting history in Congress of support for the N.R.A.'s positions and a good deal of explaining to do.As Mr. Bush's aides circulated a brief document, titled ''Al Gore & Guns,'' that cited examples from the 1980's of Mr. Gore's agreements with the gun lobby, the governor used a news conference here today to cast the vice president as a candidate whose current advocacy of more stringent restrictions on firearms was simply the latest fashion, not a matter of steadfast principle.''When it was convenient politically, he voted one way,'' Mr. Bush said, ''and when it's convenient politically, he's changed his tune.''Mr. Bush also refused to back off his suggestion on Thursday that Mr. Gore was once a member of the N.R.A. and, when challenged today to say how he knew that, offered no proof.Instead, he reminded reporters that he ended his statement about Mr. Gore and the N.R.A. with the phrase ''if I'm not mistaken,'' and told them it was their job to verify the assertion and Mr. Gore's responsibility to show that he was not a member of the group.William Powers, a spokesman for the gun organization, said he had found no evidence that Mr. Gore had been a member. But he said that when Mr. Gore was a congressman from Tennessee, ''he certainly received very high ratings from the N.R.A.''Douglas Hattaway, a spokesman for the Gore campaign, said that it could not find any record of Mr. Gore's ever being a member of the N.R.A., and that the vice president ''doesn't have any recollection of it.''''But it's an irrelevant issue anyway,'' Mr. Hattaway added. ''Al Gore is standing up to the N.R.A.'s leadership and its increasingly extreme agenda, while Bush is doing their bidding.''The exchanges between the Bush and Gore campaigns were touched off in part by a gun control group's distribution this week of a television commercial featuring footage of an N.R.A. official saying that if Mr. Bush became president, the organization would be working out of the White House. Mr. Bush said that was not true.His efforts today to turn the tables on Mr. Gore seemed to reflect not only the ascendancy of gun control as a political issue but also Mr. Bush's desire to court swing voters, many of whom favor greater regulation of firearms.And Mr. Bush took his swipes at Mr. Gore during his third day of campaigning in California, a state full of such voters.In fact, Mr. Bush's campaign schedule here this week represented an especially aggressive attempt to portray the Texas governor as a progressive, open-minded Republican by emphasizing his sensitivity of religious and ethnic diversity.In recognition of Cinco de Mayo, a Mexican-American holiday, Mr. Bush delivered a long address here this morning on the shared values of Latinos and other Americans. In it Mr. Bush used more Spanish phrases and sentences than he had previously used on the campaign trail this year.Mr. Bush's remarks, delivered to hundreds of people at a ''breakfast fiesta'' sponsored by a private group called the U.S.-Mexico Foundation, followed a series of events, encounters and photo opportunities -- many of them filmed by the candidate's advertising team -- that put Mr. Bush together with Latino and Roman Catholic voters.The first group is crucial to Mr. Bush's hopes of winning California. The second is key to his success nationwide, and Mr. Bush has been working especially hard to appeal to Catholics since his controversial appearance in February at Bob Jones University in South Carolina, a school with a history of anti-Catholic bias.The Bush campaign also said today that Mr. Bush would postpone a speech about Social Security, scheduled for Monday, so that he could attend the funeral Mass for Cardinal John O'Connor in New York.According to the Bush campaign document about Mr. Gore's record on gun control in Congress, he supported a measure to remove a ban on interstate sales of rifles, shotguns and handguns; opposed a 14-day waiting period for handgun purchases, and from 1985 to 1990, as a senator from Tennessee, cast votes that were in line with the wishes of the N.R.A. three-quarters of the time.Mr. Hattaway did not dispute that, saying that Mr. Gore's positions had evolved with the growing prevalence of gun-related violence in the country. He also said the N.R.A. is more extreme now than it has been in the past.Mr. Hattaway noted that Mr. Gore now advocates a much wider array of restrictions on firearms than Mr. Bush, who signed legislation in Texas that permitted people to carry concealed handguns and seemed in other ways to agree with the N.R.A.Recently, though, Mr. Bush chastised an official with the organization for making inflammatory statements about President Clinton. He also signaled a slightly greater receptiveness to some gun-control proposals. And he has tried to link Mr. Gore to the N.R.A.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,In a series of brisk exchanges last week, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush laid out their disagreements over gun control, foreign policy, tax cuts, Social Security and Mr. Bush's record in Texas. Perhaps because he is struggling to stay even with Mr. Bush in the polls, Mr. Gore was on the attack almost every day, using highly personal language to derogate his opponent's policies. The subtext, however, was not about policy. It was about experience and temperament. Mr. Gore, with his customary lack of subtlety, was suggesting that Mr. Bush is an untested leader with half-baked ideas. Stressing the value of experience is a time-honored strategy for the more seasoned candidate in presidential contests. But it comes with no guarantee of success. Otherwise we would never have had presidents named Carter, Reagan and Clinton.Jimmy Carter has been on both sides of the experience strategy. He won as a new face in 1976, but when he tried in 1980 to depict the Republican challenger, Ronald Reagan, as unready for the White House, the tactic backfired. Mr. Reagan was a deft campaigner and debater who skillfully parried Mr. Carter's attempt to make him appear a lightweight. That bit of history bears a cautionary message for Mr. Gore. Even though the vice president is the best debater in presidential politics today, Mr. Bush could gain significantly with a better-than-expected performance. For now, he is arguing that the vice president's extreme attacks distort his record and insult the voters.Down the road, however, he will have to engage Mr. Gore's points more directly. The vice president is right to raise questions about Mr. Bush's achievement in education, the environment, health care and budget issues. He may have exaggerated Mr. Bush's lack of budget experience, but his point that Texas has a weak-governor system is a valid one.On foreign policy, Mr. Gore is also raising some fair questions about Mr. Bush, though there is a fine line between the license granted politicians who speak in generalities and outright distortion. The vice president accuses the governor of having a cold-war ''mindset'' that treats China and Russia as ''enemies.'' Mr. Bush says he has gone out of his way to assert the contrary. But Mr. Bush would withdraw loans and credits to Russia over its crackdown in Chechnya and abrogate the Antiballistic Missile Treaty. These two steps would be dangerously confrontational.Even so, Mr. Gore goes too far in accusing Mr. Bush of being an isolationist. As his father's son, he would be heir to policies -- and advisers -- that are international in outlook. As for China's status as a trade partner, Mr. Bush's position is the same as that of the Clinton administration.The arena where Mr. Gore has used his toughest language, surprisingly, is the budget. He repeatedly labels as perilous both the governor's $1.3 trillion tax-cut plan and his proposal to carve private investment accounts out of the Social Security system. In fact, Mr. Gore's reliance on the word ''risky'' for almost every Bush proposal probably should inspire someone to send the vice president a thesaurus. His point, however, is right. The tax cut, which Mr. Gore says would actually cost more than $2 trillion if you included the extra interest expenses from not paying down the debt, is ill-advised. And Mr. Bush has not addressed warnings from such stellar Republicans as Alan Greenspan that a big tax cut now could hurt the economy.It is of course an exaggeration for Mr. Gore to say that Mr. Bush has a ''secret plan'' for Social Security. There is something to be said for Mr. Bush's not getting lost in details, as former Senator Bill Bradley did earlier this year on the health issue. But the governor needs to flesh out his ideas on Social Security privatization. He must also explain how he would pay for his tax cut and at the same time increase military and education spending without jeopardizing other vital programs.There is a risk that the public could be turned off by bitter exchanges over policy minutiae and budget numbers. But such debates take the measure of the candidates. For Mr. Gore they reveal a policy aficionado who also has a gladiatorial instinct for verbal combat. For Mr. Bush they reveal someone who prefers to be aloof from detail, but who may not be able to pull that off with the ease of a Ronald Reagan. As the debate over experience continues, the candidates will be eyeing the polls for a reading on what the voters make of Mr. Bush's desire to float above the fray or Mr. Gore's desire to plunge into it.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Half a century later, the highways he built can barely handle a 5 p.m. crush of commuters in their S.U.V.'s, much less a panicky evacuation of the capital. But if he were alive today, the old five-star might smile to hear the latest Clinton White House strategy. The president and his national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, have taken up a mantra that granting permanent ''normal'' trading status to China isn't just about profit opportunities, it's also about national security. At the same time, the administration has labeled the AIDS crisis in Africa a threat to national security, and Vice President Al Gore has raised similar fears with his ''new security agenda,'' which includes global warming.Mr. Gore, meanwhile, used a foreign policy speech last weekend to argue for the need for ''forward engagement'' (presumably a Gore-ism for trying to think ahead). He ticked off -- in no particular order of priority -- pandemics, economic inequality, global warming and the digital divide as potential security problems that had to be nipped in the bud.In Mr. Gore's case, the political calculation is obvious: he is trying to portray his opponent, George W. Bush, as a man caught in what he termed a cold-war mindset that sees national security only in the most conventional terms.Advisers to Mr. Bush, eager to portray the current occupants of the White House as long on butter and short on guns, carry the argument one step further: by making the list of security threats too long, they argue, the Clinton administration risks taking its eye off more imminent threats. Or as Paul Wolfowitz, dean of the school of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University and one of those advisers, wrote recently, AIDS in Africa and the environment are serious problems, but calling them national security threats carries ''the implication that conventional security is no longer something we need to worry much about.''
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,JOHN HARMS CENTER FOR THE ARTS ''Arborealis,'' photography by Cali Gorevic. Through May 24. Hours: Mondays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 30 North Van Brunt Street, Englewood. (201) 567-3600.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,''This is the latest meaningless proposal from an administration desperately searching for a legacy that will endure after the evening news ends. Having already claimed credit for solving every problem under the sun, the Clinton-Gore team has apparently taken to espousing solutions in search of new problems.''
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,Of today's 29 officials elected statewide in Texas, none are Democrats. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, a Republican, faces only token Democratic opposition in her re-election campaign this year, which is more opposition than the party is providing in most statewide races. And much to the chagrin of the Democratic state chairwoman, Molly Beth Malcolm, several Democratic legislators are out campaigning with none other than the second-term governor, George W. Bush, soon to be the Republican presidential nominee.Other than the most partisan Republicans, few people in Texas would argue that Democrats are powerless or obsolete, particularly since the party still controls the Congressional delegation and the Texas House of Representatives. But as Mr. Bush campaigns for the White House, Democrats are consumed by a parochial, less glamorous electoral agenda, including legislative races and preparing for the 2002 run for governor. And few elected Democrats are willing to make trouble for the popular Mr. Bush.The state's most famous Democrat, former Gov. Ann W. Richards, who spends much of her time as a Washington lobbyist, is among those who have refrained from attacking the man who defeated her in 1994. The state's most powerful Democrat, Pete Laney, speaker of the Texas House, has so far stayed out of the presidential race. Other conservative Democrats in the Legislature either like Mr. Bush personally or are wary of antagonizing him as their districts become increasingly Republican.''There's no percentage in giving Bush a hard time,'' said Harvey Kronberg, publisher of The Quorum Report, a widely read online newsletter covering Texas politics.That detente is a timely gift for Mr. Bush as he positions himself as a coalition builder who would foster bipartisanship in Washington. By contrast, Arkansas Republicans tried to crush Bill Clinton in 1992, maligning his record and his character and leaving little doubt of their goal. ''Defeating the enemy at all costs,'' recalled Richard Bearden, then the executive director of the Arkansas Republican Party, ''and Bill Clinton was the enemy.''Merle Black, a political scientist at Emory University, said testimonials from home-state allies whom many voters across the country might find unexpected could provide credibility for presidential candidates introducing themselves to a national audience. Coming out of Georgia in 1976, Jimmy Carter enlisted the civil rights leader Andrew Young to help demonstrate that he was a Southern Democrat of a sort different from the race-baiting George C. Wallace. In the same vein, Mr. Black said, Mr. Bush is enlisting Texas Democrats to help reassure voters that he is different from the combative Congressional Republicans of the 1990's.''Bush is trying to show that he's not Newt Gingrich, he's not Tom DeLay, he's not Dick Armey,'' Mr. Black said.Though the decline of the Texas Democrats has roots in the 1960's, the unequivocal slap in the face from the voters came in 1998, when the party lost every one of more than a dozen statewide races, from governor to lieutenant governor to land commissioner, and Mr. Bush won with nearly 70 percent of the vote.An autopsy of recent Democratic misfortunes would point to money and demographics as the chief problems. Texas' huge size requires statewide candidates to raise millions upon millions of dollars in order to compete in every media market. With corporate interests favoring Republicans, said Mr. Kronberg, the online analyst, Democrats often depend on contributions from trial lawyers. And Republicans, led by Mr. Bush, have demonized the trial bar as greedy pushers of unnecessary lawsuits.With the party struggling, many Democrats agree that a high-profile effort to attack and embarrass Mr. Bush would make little sense.''Right now, our fight is not statewide,'' Mr. McClung said. ''George W. Bush is popular. He's extremely well financed. And most Texans would prefer to have a president from Texas than fight about party politics.''To a large extent, the immediate future of Texas politics depends on Mr. Bush's future. If he wins in November, his job will fall to Lt. Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican whose replacement would be chosen by the State Senate. As the presiding officer of the Senate, the lieutenant governor is considered the official with greatest influence over legislation, and a handful of candidates in both parties are already jockeying for position.But neither party dominates the Senate, and no one expects a party-line vote for lieutenant governor. Instead, victory will require attracting votes from both sides, and the hopefuls are making certain to avoid any partisan warfare. One of them, State Senator Ken Armbrister, was among four Democrats who campaigned with Mr. Bush in Ohio last month.Regardless of the outcome in November, Democrats say, they are pointing to 2002 and beyond. The powerful statewide offices of governor, lieutenant governor, attorney general and comptroller are on the ballot in 2002. Mr. Bush will either be in Washington or leaving office in Austin, and Democratic officials already envision a statewide ticket that would include Mr. Sharp, Mr. Hobby and perhaps the mayors of Dallas, Ron Kirk, and Austin, Kirk Watson.Mr. McClung and other Democrats also believe that the state's changing demographics may turn in their favor in this decade. Hispanics are expected to soon become the state's most populous ethnic group, and as yet they usually support Democrats. Mr. Bush has aggressively courted Hispanics, but Democrats believe that their appeal is stronger. In addition, college-age voters are showing renewed interest in the party. All this is the gospel that Democrats are repeating to themselves.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,''They wouldn't meet with us,'' said Stephen Jenkins, a coordinator for Make the Road by Walking, a Bushwick community group that was represented at the meeting. ''We met with a lower-level supervisor, and he said he would pass on our message to them. But we haven't heard from them. It's frustrating.''
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Jennifer French Bush, the daughter of Virginia Jones Bush of Old Saybrook, Conn., and William Clyde Bush of Bronxville, N.Y., was married yesterday to Thomas Mortimer Evans, the son of Wanda L. Plumer of Upper Marlboro, Md., and George H. Evans of Islesboro, Me. The Rev. Christopher H. Neely, a United Methodist minister, performed the ceremony at Pink Sands, a resort in Dunmore Town, Harbour Island, the Bahamas.
2000-05-08T05:00:00+0000,''If depth of knowledge about government won elections, then both Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale would've beaten Ronald Reagan,'' said Orin Kramer, an adviser to Mr. Corzine. ''And if political debating skills won elections, Michael S. Dukakis would've beaten George Bush, and Mario Cuomo would still be governor of New York.''
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,MAY 16 -- A dinner at the Ellis Island Immigration Museum with former President and Mrs. George Bush will raise money for AmeriCares, the humanitarian aid and disaster relief organization. The evening begins with a cocktail reception at 6:30, with dinner and a performance by the United Nations International School Concert Choir to follow at 7:30. Ferries to Ellis Island leave from Battery Park beginning at 6. Tickets, $1,000, from (203) 972-5510.
2000-05-08T05:00:00+0000,With Vice President and Mrs. Gore as honorary chairman and chairwoman, a gala performance at the Metropolitan Opera House at 6:30 tonight opens the 60th season of American Ballet Theater. The program will feature the New York premiere of Twyla Tharp's ''Variations on a Theme by Haydn'' and excerpts from the season's full-length ballets and repertory favorites like ''Le Corsaire,'' ''Theme and Variations'' and Kevin McKenzie's production of ''Swan Lake.'' Information: (212) 362-6000.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Some other bad early averages of players who aren't new to their teams: Tony Clark, .155; Rey Ordonez, .179; Ray Lankford, .187; Homer Bush, .192; Jose Offerman, .198; Rickey Henderson, .203; Cliff Floyd, .203; and Eric Karros, .204.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,In an unusual display of public dissension, some Liberal Party members have said in recent days that they would oppose backing Mr. Giuliani, saying it would be a betrayal of the party's philosophy to send another Republican to the Senate. And if Mr. Harding backs Mr. Giuliani, he risks losing a presidential candidate: Mrs. Clinton's aides have been pushing Vice President Al Gore to decline the Liberal Party line if the party backs Mr. Giuliani.Mr. Gore's aides said yesterday that he might accede to Mrs. Clinton's request. They said he would put off the decision as long as possible, giving him time to assess whether he needs the Liberal Party to win in New York (right now, his aides think he does not), as well as to see whether Mr. Giuliani stays in the race.Peter Ragone, a spokesman for Mr. Gore's campaign, said that the vice president was now beginning a closer look at the thicket of independent parties in New York, and that he would ''consider the endorsement'' of any party that shared his views. However, Mr. Ragone added, ''the vice president is a strong supporter of Hillary Clinton, and our campaign will do everything we can to elect her the next senator from New York.''''What he did today -- with Hillary, no less -- they both went and knelt at the altar of Ray Harding, who in fact gave us Bella Abzug, John Lindsay and Mario Cuomo,'' Mr. Long said. ''That sends a clear signal to the world that he wants to run with Al Gore, he wants to keep the Liberal tradition, and I don't know who the real Giuliani is.''
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,Seldom has so much political, moral and cultural explosiveness been put into such proximity as in the first few pews of St. Patrick's Cathedral yesterday, where President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton knelt with Vice President Al Gore; the Bush dynasty, father and son; Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani; Gov. George E. Pataki; Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations; and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. There were two former mayors, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins, and -- well, the idea is clear. Draw all the lines of alliance, rivalry, anger and affection among those individuals and the results would be as messy as a child's scribble.
2000-05-08T05:00:00+0000,Gov. George W. Bush has never been considered much of a wordsmith. But bit by bit, he is developing a political dictionary all his own.For example, when Vice President Al Gore distorts the Texas governor's record and proposals, at least as Mr. Bush sees it, Mr. Gore is not ''lying,'' two syllables that never escape Mr. Bush's lips. Rather, Mr. Gore is behaving in a manner that is ''disappointing,'' four syllables that the governor much prefers and has begun to use ad nauseam.And while Mr. Bush, the de facto Republican presidential nominee, says that he will soon identify numerous ways in which the government can save money, none of these plans will be ''cuts,'' a four-letter word that the candidate avoids. They will be ''savings'' that make the government more ''efficient'' -- kinder, gentler terms.It is a name game all the more interesting for the fact that Mr. Bush, with little smiles and wiggles of his eyebrows, wholly acknowledges that he is playing it. And this unspoken but unmistakable admission has precipitated endless rounds of semantic jousting between Mr. Bush and reporters, who are constantly trying to get him to say what he clearly means.''I'm just disappointed,'' Mr. Bush said, with a ''nice-try'' twinkle and grin. ''I think that's the word I'd like to use. It's a disappointing thing.''Mr. Bush, a savvy enough candidate, understands that in politics, diction establishes tone, and tone is everything. And he turns to euphemisms to resolve inherent tensions in his campaign, like his pledge to run a positive race and his simultaneous resolve to wage an aggressive fight that exposes what he believes to be Mr. Gore's shortcomings.He did the same thing in the primaries, watering down the nouns and verbs he used to describe and disparage his principal opponent, Senator John McCain of Arizona. Mr. Bush's mantra at the time was that Mr. McCain ''says one thing and does another.''Mr. Bush flinched at the mere suggestion. No, he said, it made the senator a man practiced in the ways of ''Washington,'' a word that was perhaps dirtier but much less explicitly mean-spirited.Throughout the Republican primaries, the Bush campaign trumpeted seemingly any and every endorsement, whether it came from the governor of a large state or the secretary of a small sewing circle.But last week, the Bush campaign took that tendency to the outer limits.Mr. Bush showed reporters in the back of his campaign plane a recent copy of Weekly World News, a supermarket tabloid, with a cover story on the extraterrestrial support he was receiving. The front page featured a photograph of the governor standing beside an oblong, hairless, vaguely reptilian space alien.And as Mr. Bush noted, his alien encounter was further proof of his commitment to expanding the Republican Party's appeal.The exchange also went to show what a prankster and funnyman Mr. Bush fancies himself, a persona on vivid display last week.Mr. Gore was hurling accusations and put-downs in the governor's direction, and Mr. Bush was laughing, establishing a contrast that may not have been accidental in the least.But Mr. Bush said the man was really ''mooning authority.''The governor seemed a bit less sanguine when the topic turned to a profile, in a major magazine, of the campaign's chief strategist, Karl Rove. Mr. Bush has a thing about advisers eclipsing the candidates they serve.And he jokingly wondered what he should expect next: a Playgirl magazine pictorial of his campaign manager, Joe Allbaugh? Mr. Allbaugh is older and burlier than a typical centerfold, but Mr. Bush had a vision.
2000-05-08T05:00:00+0000,Vice President Al GoreFormer President George BushGov. George W. Bush
2000-05-08T05:00:00+0000,Consider the performances this year of Clinton and Gore. If you watched TV last week -- from interviews with emcee Jay Leno to televised excerpts released by the White House on news programs everywhere -- you saw highlights of the undeniably boffo show put on at the W.H.C.A. dinner by the president.By contrast (and both are Democrats, so this is a nonpartisan analysis), Gore at the Gridiron emulated a style perfected two generations ago by John Kennedy at a memorable Al Smith memorial dinner in New York. Hard to believe, but Gore, like J.F.K., played to the people in the room with an unexpectedly light touch, using lines attuned to his politically sensitive audience.Everyone present knew that Gore's greatest campaign vulnerability is his denial of prior knowledge about illegal fund-raising. Many in the audience were aware he had claimed to have been out of the room when his aides were discussing this; he had even suggested he may have been off to the john after drinking a lot of iced tea. Few accept this.So Gore reportedly stepped to the lectern and asked for a glass of iced tea. Small laugh. He took the glass and slowly drained it all the way to the bottom, as the tittering grew. Then he carefully returned the glass to the waiter and delivered the punch line: ''I can't stay long.''That went over as nicely suggestive but clean, topically pointed and disarmingly self-directed. Just as Clinton's ''You forgot your lunch!'' was designed to elicit a belly laugh from a national audience, Gore's ''I can't stay long'' was intended to induce a grudgingly appreciative chuckle from an opinion-molding audience.
2000-05-08T05:00:00+0000,The latest numbers offered a stunning contradiction: a 3.9 percent unemployment rate, the lowest in 30 years, and two major national polls showing Gov. George W. Bush of Texas leading Vice President Al Gore by 5 percentage points.So why isn't the booming economy blowing Mr. Bush away? Have the rules changed?First, the economy has stayed strong so long that most people are not worrying about it. Peter D. Hart, a Democratic pollster, said, ''It doesn't sit there as a major worry that people talk about.'' Robert Teeter, a Republican pollster who collaborates with Mr. Hart on the NBC News/ Wall Street Journal poll, said one reason for Bush support among older people was that ''only about 6 percent of the old people have economic worries.''Second, Mr. Gore does not get credit for the way things are. Polls show the public gives it to President Clinton and Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.That may be reasonable enough, but Mr. Gore's own weakness as a candidate compounds that problem. After all, Mr. Gore is campaigning on a promise to keep the same economic policies Mr. Clinton has followed, while Mr. Bush's central campaign message is that he wants a very big tax cut.But the NBC/Journal poll showed that only 27 percent of voters thought Mr. Gore was very likely or fairly likely to pursue policies that would keep the economy strong, compared to 32 percent who said that of Mr. Bush. (Both of them enjoyed less credence than they did in December, when 36 percent had confidence in Mr. Gore and 43 percent in Mr. Bush.)The NBC/Journal poll had Mr. Bush ahead, 46 percent to 41 percent. A Gallup Poll for CNN and USA Today had the Bush lead at 49 to 44. Both polls were taken the last weekend of April, and the margin of sampling error for the NBC/Journal survey was plus or minus three percentage points, one less than for the Gallup Poll.Mr. Gore has simply not capitalized on winning his party's nomination more easily than Mr. Bush won his or achieving quickly the party unity and support from Bill Bradley that Mr. Bush is still seeking from Senator John McCain.Mr. Teeter said the data in the NBC/Journal poll explained it. ''Gore is not a very good candidate,'' he said. ''He is not a very likable candidate.'' Mr. Teeter argued that Mr. Gore's frequent attacks on Mr. Bush ran the risk ''of looking like the guy who is out of his time,'' out of step with an optimistic country.There is no question that the Gore message in the summer and fall will emphasize continuity and accuse Mr. Bush of risking prosperity for a needless tax cut. Comparisons with the last Republican administration are inevitable, but will have special bite because the phrase ''Bush recession'' will surely be used.Mr. Hart, while conceding Mr. Gore's weak standing, cited a focus group he conducted last Tuesday in a Philadelphia suburb as offering hope for Mr. Gore. Everyone in the group of 12, whether he or she favored Mr. Bush or Mr. Gore, ''wanted the same policies,'' he said. ''They didn't want to tinker with the economy.''''Al Gore is sitting on a gusher,'' Mr. Hart said, if he can find a way to identify himself with the voters' desire for continuity.The best evidence that it is not too late for Mr. Gore comes from a New York Times/CBS News Poll taken in May 1988. That was the last time a vice president ran to succeed a popular president in an economic boom. Gov. Michael S. Dukakis led Vice President George Bush, 49 percent to 39 percent. It did not last.
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,Housing Secretary Andrew Cuomo added his voice yesterday to the chorus of Democrats who have called on Gov. George W. Bush of Texas to clarify his position on federal legislation that would prohibit lawsuits by local governments against gun manufacturers. Mr. Bush signed such legislation in Texas, and suggested last week that he would do the same in Washington. In a telephone news conference yesterday, Mr. Cuomo, who has tried to negotiate settlements between gun makers and cities that have sued them, called Mr. Bush's remarks vague. He asserted that the gun makers, who have broken off talks in recent months, would return to the table if they knew Mr. Bush opposed such legislation. Bush aides accused Mr. Cuomo of politicizing the issue. ''Instead of spending their time distorting and misrepresenting Governor Bush's priorities, the Clinton-Gore administration ought to spend more time enforcing our existing gun laws,'' said Scott McClellan, a spokesman for Mr. Bush. James Dao (NYT)Various interests groups, especially those that support abortion rights, plan to have their voices heard when the Republican national convention this summer in Philadelphia assembles a platform for this year's nominee. Over the weekend, Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, the recently selected chairman of the platform committee, offered them some thoughts. After all the hearings are held and all the testimony is heard, he said, the presidential candidate will have the last word, not the committee. ''I'm certainly going to be listening to all sectors of the party,'' Mr. Thompson told The Philadelphia Inquirer. ''But my ultimate client is George Bush, and what he feels best is what we will do.'' On the matter of abortion, Mr. Thompson said he would abide by Mr. Bush's promises to leave the current plank, which strongly opposes abortion. Irvin Molotsky (NYT)It is no secret among Arizona Republicans that Gov. Jane Dee Hull's endorsement of her fellow governor George W. Bush over her fellow Arizonan Senator John McCain left bad feelings on both sides. It was bad enough that last month Ms. Hull agreed to give up the governor's prerogative of leading the state's delegation to the Republican National Convention -- after all, Mr. McCain easily won the primary, and thus the right to control the state's 30-member delegation. Now comes word that Mr. McCain wants his wife, Cindy, to lead the delegation instead. That has rankled Hull supporters. The issue is to be decided at the state party convention on Saturday. Todd S. Purdum (NYT)
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,The ''it'' was, perhaps, the most uncomfortable moment of political humor of the television season. After weeks of goading by Mr. Letterman, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas agreed to appear by satellite on his show, an encounter that was, by most assessments, a disaster for the Republican presidential candidate. Mr. Bush, hampered by the split-second time delay and projecting an air of being led on a forced march, offered one lame quip after another, including a pun about Mr. Letterman's recent heart operation so strained that it left the host staring, mortified, into the camera.Having a serious impact on real events is, of course, the last thing on the minds of most of the writers and performers of political satire on television. ''I just want the politicians and the people who watch our show to know that this is a place where the buck honestly stops,'' said Bill Maher, the no-nonsense host of ''Politically Incorrect,'' ABC's freewheeling after-hours talkfest. Still, as the Bush appearance on ''Letterman'' illustrates, political comedy relies ever more intensively on the willing (and in some instances unwitting) participation of actual officeholders and officeseekers.He is aware, though, that his blunt style has power. Asked, for instance, if he had invited Mr. Bush on his show, Mr. Maher laughed at the improbability of such an appearance. ''I've been so hard on him,'' he said. (He added that he was not a fan of Vice President Al Gore, either.)IT may be just as well that Mr. Bush steers clear of the program, given his performance on ''Letterman,'' a show that has become a kind of political proving ground. Gerard Mulligan, a longtime staff writer, said that Mr. Letterman ''discovered inadvertently'' just how gravely candidates respond to his comic denunciations. For weeks, he complained on the air about Hillary Rodham Clinton's refusal to appear on the show after announcing her campaign for the Senate seat from New York.
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,Nevertheless, we have not seen so much political commitment to better schools since the 1988 campaign, when George Bush and Michael Dukakis each announced he intended to become the ''education president.'' The golden age of pedagogy that everyone expected to flow from this contest somehow failed to arrive. Now Al Gore and George W. Bush trade assault e-mail on the subject every single day. Mr. Bush cannot talk enough about the way he's improved the schools in Texas. He is particularly voluble about having ended social promotion, about how he insisted that no Texas child go from the third grade to the fourth until he or she could read at grade level.''It's important to have high standards,'' he told a county Republican gathering a while back, using a Bush ian gesture that indicates the height he had in mind was about five feet.In truth, the first kids who will ever be affected by that policy are currently in kindergarten. This is the classic political approach to the setting of standards on any topic. You want to be strict about the required levels of achievement, but loose about the timetable. The ideal due date, in fact, is the year after whoever sets the standards leaves office. If Mr. Bush is lucky, by the time Texas third graders start getting held back, he'll be in Washington preparing for his re-election campaign.To be fair to Mr. Bush, Texas is actually making an attempt to set the bar higher without whopping it over the heads of the children who happen to get caught in the transition. This year the teachers started getting additional training, and the students' skills are being tested regularly so those who start to fall behind can get special tutoring. A timetable that actually prepares kids for the standards they're supposed to meet is definitely not silly.
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,On the campaign trail, the two presumptive presidential candidates have differing views of the ''humanitarian intervention'' policy. George W. Bush Jr. has said he would be much more selective in deciding where and when the United States would intervene. Vice President Al Gore supported the interventionist policy in a recent major speech. Mr. Gore was instrumental in preventing the agency from being melded into the State Department years ago.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Being funny at the annual dinners of the Alfalfa Club, the Gridiron Club, and the associations of White House and broadcast correspondents, has become serious business in Washington, and Mr. Katz is a regular writer on the circuit. ''A good joke will last a week,'' said Mr. Katz, who also helped write Vice President Al Gore's speech at this year's Gridiron dinner. ''And a bad joke will appear in their obituary.''Self-deprecation was also the centerpiece of Vice President Gore's successful monologues at the Gridiron dinner, in 1994, 1997 and last March. At the 1994 dinner, Mr. Gore made fun of his reputation for stiffness by being wheeled into the dais on a handcart. This year, he told the assembled journalists that ''there are some things I won't do to become president. I won't hold a press conference.'' He also drew roars by asking plaintively: ''This isn't a fund-raiser, is it?''But he did not miss a chance to lampoon his presumed Republican rival for the presidency, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, who he said ''thinks fettuccine Alfredo is the Italian prime minister.''In 1993, Mr. Katz wrote a speech for Madeleine K. Albright, who was then the United States ambassador to the United Nations, that sparked laughter from President Clinton. He has since written for Mr. Clinton, Mr. Gore and Hillary Rodham Clinton.Mr. Gore has improved his timing and delivery in recent years, but can still be a bit rigid. Mr. Bush has yet to make a major Washington appearance as a humorist (he did a short speech at the Alfalfa Club in 1998) but his remarks did draw a few laughs at a recent Republican fund-raising dinner. His appearance on the Letterman show in March, however, drew chilly reviews.
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,ON THE SCREEN -- A still photo of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, closing in tightly on his left eye. Cut to a shot in which a man is shown tucking a large silver pistol under his belt buckle. Scenes of a rustic church and children riding on a carousel dramatically break apart, like a smashed mirror, to reveal a grainy video clip of Kayne Robinson, first vice president of the National Rifle Association, talking emphatically to an audience of N.R.A. members. Concludes with a shot of the White House.THE SCRIPT -- Male announcer: ''George Bush says if you want to know what he'll do as president, take a look at his record.'' Female announcer: ''As governor of Texas, Bush signed the law that allows carrying concealed handguns for the first time in 125 years.'' Male announcer: ''And he signed the law that allows carrying those concealed handguns in churches, nursing homes, even amusement parks.'' Female announcer: ''No wonder the N.R.A. says'': (voice of Mr. Robinson) ''If we win, we'll have a president'' (here Mr. Robinson's words are spliced to bring two sentence fragments together) ''where we work out of their office.'' Female announcer: ''Tell Governor Bush: The White House is our house.'' Male announcer: ''And it shouldn't belong to the N.R.A.''ACCURACY -- It is true that Mr. Bush has often sided with the National Rifle Association in legislative battles in his more than five years as governor. Over the objections of gun control advocates, he signed legislation allowing people to carry concealed handguns, allowing handguns to be taken into churches and prohibiting local governments from suing gun manufacturers. The N.R.A.'s executive vice president, Wayne LaPierre, also recently helped raise at least $250,000 at a major Republican Party fund-raiser honoring Mr. Bush. But Mr. Bush has at times tried to distance himself from the organization, by supporting mandatory trigger locks for new handguns and criticizing Mr. LaPierre for asserting that President Clinton had tolerated a certain level of gun violence for political reasons.SCORECARD -- By trying to depict Mr. Bush as a pawn of the N.R.A., the advertisement seeks to make him seem like an extremist on gun control issues, because the N.R.A. is widely perceived as intransigently opposed to any restrictions on gun ownership. Also, it suggests that the governor is not his own man, that he is beholden to powerful right-wing interest groups. The advertisement is not being shown widely enough to affect many voters directly, but Handgun Control is clearly hoping that journalists in Washington and Texas will use it to write critical stories about Mr. Bush. The group is also running the spot in several cities with hotly contested Congressional races in which gun control may become an important issue, including Lansing and Columbus. James Dao
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,The latest polls show George W. Bush just a whisker ahead of Al Gore in overall voter approval ratings. But when asked about environmental protection, voters give Mr. Gore a double-digit advantage over Mr. Bush. Mr. Gore has begun to exploit this edge; in a speech last month, for example, he said Mr. Bush was only ''pretending to care'' about the environment.Other critics have attacked Mr. Bush's record, too, brandishing air quality statistics, which show that Texas ranks worst among states in total tons of air pollution.But as it turns out, the Texas governor's record is far better than activists allow. Governor Bush has tackled environmental problems creatively, with a new approach that emphasizes cooperation over conflict.Second, Governor Bush's predecessors paid relatively little attention to air quality. Mr. Bush backed an initiative that made Texas only the third state in the nation to require pollution reductions from older power plants that had been exempted from the standards set for more modern ones. By 2003, the Bush plan aims to cut nitrogen oxide emissions, a component of smog, in half. The program included some voluntary commitments by companies, as well as requirements.Governor Bush also expanded the ''clean industries 2000'' program, which was started in 1992 by Gov. Ann Richards. To participate, companies committed to cutting their toxic or hazardous waste in half by this year; in exchange, they may display a special environmental logo. So far, 185 companies have together eliminated more than 43 million tons of hazardous waste and reduced energy consumption by 11.3 million kilowatt hours. Through this and other programs, Texas actually led the nation in reducing toxic releases in 1997, the most recent year for which figures have been reported.Another conservation effort has helped farmers and ranchers develop plans for helping wildlife survive on some 10 million acres. On state lands, Mr. Bush led in the creation of a privately financed endowment, bolstered by state appropriations, to restore and maintain every state park, wildlife area and fish hatchery.Some environmental groups don't like Mr. Bush's approach, which emphasizes incentives and voluntary agreements. But what matters are results. Are pollutants being reduced? Is habitat being protected? Are old hazardous-waste sites getting cleaned up? On this score, Governor Bush's performance looks surprisingly good.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,There's plenty of work to be done in Hartford, no doubt about it. But one could counter Mr. McEnroe's list with one equally convincing in its positive tone. Among the items on such a list might be Hartford's recent recapture of its glorious riverfront, the additions under way at the Bushnell Theater and the city's downtown library as well as the Learning Corridor project, which has already put a fresh face on the city's South End.
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,The mourners applauded as Cardinal Law tried to quiet them with a gesture of his hands. Then they rose to their feet. And with the audience rose the politicians, if not quite as quickly: Gov. George E. Pataki, Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Clinton, Hillary Rodham Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, Senator Charles E. Schumer and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan among them. Mr. Giuliani, after tugging at his jacket, even joined in the applause, though unenergetically.Gov. George W. Bush and his father, the former president, applauded. They were among the few politicians in the front pews who share the church's view on abortion. But they vigorously support the death penalty and are not particularly friendly to organized labor, as Cardinal O'Connor was.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Wilderness Trails, Lewa Downs, Kenya, is represented by Bush Homes of East Africa in Nairobi, (254-2) 571661, fax (254-2) 571665; www.bush-homes.co.ke. Rates start at $660 a night for two in a room, including meals, table wine, beer and activities.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Back in the Bush era, when Americans feared that the Japanese might take over, Rapaille was summoned by a corporate sponsor to find out how the United States could adapt Asian high-efficiency management concepts, like ''do it right the first time.''''Bill Clinton fascinates me,'' he said. ''Americans loved him. Why? Because Clinton made mistakes. It means he was learning something and getting better.'' Rapaille said that in the late 80's, Lee Atwater, then working for George Bush p re, hired him to do an archetype study of the presidency. Though financing ran out before Rapaille could complete his work, he was able to gather useful material in the word-association sessions. Participants compared the chief executive to a ''movie character''; they said he could ''make people see things.'' From this, Rapaille was able to identify the core emotional nubbin. Fatherhood? Celebration? Nationalism? No, no. The presidency is: ''cheap entertainment.''''Gore is boring,'' Rapaille said. ''This is a real problem. Bush is not very intelligent. But then, who cares? Americans have never been impressed by intellectuals.'' So Bush's mediocre mind is not nearly the handicap that Gore's leaden personality is. Rapaille gives Bush the edge, but neither one of them interests him much. He openly pines for Bill Clinton the icon (not the politician). Mistakes weren't Clinton's only asset. America's code, according to Rapaille, is built around ''hope.'' That's why Clinton's slogan in 1992 ''was simply brilliant,'' Rapaille said. ''I still believe in a place called ''hope.''' He's almost a genius.'' Clinton had instinctively hit the grand slam of presidential codes. Mistakes. Cheap Entertainment. Hope.
2000-05-08T05:00:00+0000,Other money has been used to hire prominent Republican consultants who could help Mr. Pataki in a future run for national office. For instance, Benjamin L. Ginsberg, an elections specialist at the Washington law firm of Patton Boggs, whose clients include Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, billed $7,264 in legal fees as recently as March. Stephen Moore, an economist with the Cato Institute in Washington, received $27,500 for fine-tuning Mr. Pataki's fiscal proposals, while Peggy Noonan, a speechwriter for Presidents George Bush and Ronald Reagan, was paid $10,000 to polish his words.
2000-05-08T05:00:00+0000,The festival was started in 1979 by the Coalition of Asian Pacific Americans when President Jimmy Carter designated Asian-American Heritage Week. (President George Bush later expanded the designation to encompass the month of May). For many years, it drew several hundred people, most of whom had ties to the 30 or so nonprofit groups that set up booths. These included organizations like the Chinatown Health Clinic and the Basement Workshop, an arts collective.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,We applaud the support for expanding drug and alcohol treatment expressed by Al Gore and George W. Bush (news article, May 3).
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Saturday's telecast of the Kentucky Derby marked the end of a long run for ABC, which had been the Triple Crown network for many years. Next year the Derby will move to NBC as part of a five-year Triple Crown package. Race officials hope the switch will provide more promotion and exposure for the Derby, which has had declining ratings. The Derby, however, falls in the middle of the National Basketball Association playoffs, which NBC also televises. Churchill Downs officials realize their telecast may be sandwiched between N.B.A. games -- for better or worse. . . . A former president and a presidential candidate were Derby guests of WILLIAM FARISH, the Churchill Downs president. Former President GEORGE BUSH and his son Gov. GEORGE W. BUSH of Texas joined Farish, a friend of the Bushes. The former president had been to the Derby before; his son made his first visit.
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,As the Congressional vote on permanent normalized trade relations for China draws closer, Vice President Al Gore is stepping up his activities to promote it.Mr. Gore has been tepid in his support so far for the agreement, largely because organized labor, which backs him, opposes it. But speaking up for it serves Mr. Gore's political purposes now by helping to counter the impression, reinforced during the controversy over Elian Gonzalez, that he does not take principled stands and instead panders to those whose support he seeks.At the annual meeting of Associated Press publishers and editors yesterday in New York, Mr. Gore did not raise the China issue, but was asked about it in a question-and-answer session. Uncharacteristically, he delved into the reasons he believed the trade bill should pass; normally, when he mentions the issue at all, he gives it fairly short shrift.A White House spokesman, Jim Kennedy, said that former President George Bush, the father of Mr. Gore's Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, was invited, but ''due to a scheduling conflict, he is not able to attend.'' Governor Bush supports the trade agreement.Mr. Gore's commitment to the matter has been in some doubt since he won the endorsement of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. last fall. He said then that he supported it, leading two of the organization's most powerful members, the Teamsters and the United Auto Workers, to withhold their endorsement of his candidacy.Mr. Gore has tried to win over James P. Hoffa, president of the Teamsters union, but Mr. Hoffa, who is up for re-election and faces his own internal politics, has recently expressed more interest in the third-party candidacy of Patrick J. Buchanan, who also opposes the treaty.Mr. Gore has said he has called some members of Congress to push them to support the treaty, but has not said how many. Aides say he has made calls from his campaign plane and from his office and that if the vice president did not want to appear in the East Room today, he would not do so, suggesting that he sees some political benefit in standing with President Clinton on an issue that the administration has advanced as important to the economy.
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,Massachusetts and California recently decided to assess schools based on performance by race, as New York plans to do. In a presidential campaign event to mark National Teachers Day today, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas plans to discuss ways to close the gap.
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Speculation has been especially intense since Gov. George W. Bush of Texas raised the possibility that he might choose Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania as a running mate. Not only does Mr. Ridge hail from an important battleground state with 23 electoral votes, but he also happens to be a close friend.Still, whenever Governor Ridge's name comes up, the point is almost always made that unlike Governor Bush, Governor Ridge favors abortion rights, hardly something that will endear him to the powerful Republican right. No matter, Governor Bush has said time and again, his friend merits consideration as a top prospect.
2000-05-09T05:00:00+0000,If politics is often about appearances, the eagerly anticipated meeting here on Tuesday between Gov. George W. Bush of Texas and Senator John McCain of Arizona is being scrutinized by political observers and reporters as closely as Egyptologists might pore over hieroglyphics.In their first meeting since Mr. Bush trounced Mr. McCain in the primaries on March 7, the governor and senator are getting together at Mr. Bush's invitation for private fence-mending, public picture-taking and the expectation in the Bush camp that Mr. McCain would eventually make some kind of endorsement.By a Bush campaign estimate, 120 journalists had inquired about attending the news conference. Analysts have talked like color commentators about watching Mr. McCain's body language.''It's a test of leadership for Bush,'' said Tom Hannon, who oversees coverage of politics for CNN. ''In that sense, it's a purely political story; it has much to do with Bush's facility for handling it and how he handles the whole nomination process.''Mr. McCain's performance at the signing of copies of his autobiography showed how much he still enjoyed the attention. At a news conference, the senator dropped hints that he might yet endorse Mr. Bush on Tuesday: when asked if that was a possibility, Mr. McCain said, ''Sure.''''Endorse'' is the word Mr. Bush dearly wants Mr. McCain to utter when they emerge from their morning meeting at the William Penn Hotel here.And as if to keep Mr. Bush in suspense, Mr. McCain was quoted in The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette this morning as ruling out an endorsement for the time being. He told the paper that he wanted a clearer understanding of the governor's claim to be ''a reformer with results.''Supporters of Mr. McCain said the senator would almost certainly endorse Mr. Bush, if not today, sometime soon.But first, hurt feelings must be purged. In fact, in discussing the mending of the wounded egos on both sides -- Mr. McCain is still smarting over the governor's attack ads and Mr. Bush is said to remain miffed at the senator's resistance to come in from the cold -- Mr. Graham sounded more like a radio psychiatrist.Mr. Bush seemed to acknowledge the need for catharsis. Speaking to reporters at La Guardia Airport in New York before attending the funeral of Cardinal John J. O'Connor, the governor said that he was ''looking forward'' to talking to Mr. McCain.''Probably the most important thing will be body language and tone,'' said Mr. Halperin said. ''All eyes and camera lenses will be on the question of, does McCain act as if George Bush is his leader, or does he act like the independent maverick, unhappy with the way things have turned out?''It is far from customary for a vanquished contender for president to withhold formal support for this long. This year, for instance, former Senator Bill Bradley endorsed Vice President Al Gore within 48 hours of losing every state on March 7.The Democrats said they are getting a kick out of the hoops that Mr. Bush appeared to be going through to win over Mr. McCain.''It's part of the Bob Jones University Redemption Tour,'' said Joe Andrew, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, referring to Mr. Bush's efforts to distance himself from the Christian conservatives he wooed during the primaries. Mr. Andrew will hold a news conference here on Tuesday with senior citizens from across Pennsylvania, to point up discrepancies in Mr. Bush's and Mr. McCain's proposals regarding Social Security.Of course, the question of whether an endorsement by a member of one's own party is meaningful to anyone but the candidate and the people paid to write and talk about it remains an open one. To Senator Arlen Specter, a Republican whose home state is host to the meeting, the issue may be settled a lot more easily than a lot of people think: ''It's for Governor Bush to say, ''I'd like to have your support.' ''After all, Mr. Specter said, he hasn't made an endorsement, either. ''When McCain and Bush were in it together, I thought it was the better part of valor to stay out of it,'' he explained. Since then, he added, ''Nobody's asked me.''
2000-05-07T05:00:00+0000,Although the spotlight has shifted to Vice President Al Gore and Hillary Rodham Clinton, prominent Democrats portray Mr. Clinton's role as that of an enormously valuable Strategist in Chief. They describe him as a sponge for absorbing political statistics -- a skill that is all the more enhanced because he has run twice in all 435 Congressional districts. And he willingly brings his well-honed political instincts to bear while exerting the power of the presidency to elect Democrats.Mr. Clinton has been seeking election or re-election since 1974, when he was defeated in a race for Congress. And the president's closest advisers say that although he is no longer running himself, his passion for electoral politics has never receded. They also cite another, more personal, reason for Mr. Clinton's deep involvement: he wants to burnish his own legacy with the election of Mr. Gore to succeed him, the installation of Mrs. Clinton as senator from New York and the return of the House to Democratic control.The president is particularly engrossed in the first lady's race, and to a lesser degree in Mr. Gore's. But his involvement in campaigns from coast to coast is extraordinary.He suggested that Mr. Gore not write off North Carolina in November, even though Mr. Clinton lost the state twice. If the Gore campaign takes that advice, it may cause the Bush campaign to rethink its own electoral tactics.Others who have talked politics with Mr. Clinton said he was preoccupied with the need for Democrats to win the loyalty of Hispanic voters. They said he had even spoken in detail about the importance of married Protestants. And, they said, he was particularly intrigued by contests in Michigan, New Jersey and Florida, where Mr. Gore has been pressing his campaign amid the tumult over the administration's handling of the Elian Gonzalez case.Mr. Clinton still convenes political meetings twice a month or so in the ornate Yellow Oval Room in the White House family quarters. The sessions are not as pressing as they were when they were held weekly before the 1996 campaign, and the group of participants, which often numbers close to two dozen, is usually larger than the more exclusive club of the past. Mr. Gore does not attend anymore.Participants at the group's most recent meeting, in April, recalled that Mr. Clinton said he wanted to accept invitations to speak at college graduations in areas with high concentrations of minorities, like Shiprock, N.M., where he thought his appearance would help spur interest in Mr. Gore's campaign.James Carville, an architect of Mr. Clinton's victory in 1992, said of the president: ''If he calls me it would be to chat about Gore and Hillary. But I've had him tell me ideas for brochures in Senate races. He's a rare combination of somebody who's got the brains and the 
